Page/File Not Found ... Go To Home Page ...

Academic Regulations Old Regulation S.No. Regulations governing Programs offered by the Institute for students 1. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards ( Download file: 536 KB) 1.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 2. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2020 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 2.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file: 280 KB) 3. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2021 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 3.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file : 280 KB ) 4. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2022 onwards ( Download file: 441 KB) (Post Graduate Programmes) 5. Regulations for Joint Programmes in Medical Technologies 6. M.S. by Research Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2023 onwards ( Download file) 7. Amendments applicable for all students from Semester I Academic Year 2024-25 1. Amendment in the Attendance Policy of the Institute ( Download file) 2. Amendment in the Examination Policy of the Institute ( Download file) Rules & Regulations (For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards) ( Download file) Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file) Academic Regulations Approved in July 2019 Academic Regulations Academic Regulations 2. Academic Session 2.1 Academic Calendar 3. Registration 3.1 Provisional Registration 3.2 Late Registration 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses 3.4 Withdrawing from a course 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration 3.6 Summer Course Registration 4. Teaching and Evaluation 4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction 4.1.2 Course Structure 4.1.3 Approval of Courses 4.1.4 List of Courses 4.1.5 Categories of Courses 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements 4.2 Evaluation 5. Grading System 5.1 Letter Grades 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average 6. Grade Card and Transcript 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases 8. Make-up Examinations Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes 9. Undergraduate Programs 10. Undergraduate Admissions 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes 10.2 Reservation Policy 10.3 Student Exchange Programme 10.4 Visiting Students 10.5 Cancellation of Admission 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements 11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 12. UG Registration 12.1 Summer Courses 12.2 Limits on Registration 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC) 13.3 Engineering Innovation 13.4 Design Project Evaluation 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project 14. Termination 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program 14.2 Appeal against Termination 15. Leave Rules 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation 15.2 Short Leave 15.3 Semester Withdrawal 15.4 Academic Leave 16. Branch Change 17. Requirements 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 17.2 Academic 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO 17.6 Award of Degrees 18. Amendments Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes 19. Postgraduate Programmes 20. Postgraduate admissions 20.1 Categories of Admission 20.2 Eligibility for Admission 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students 20.4 Reservation Policy 21 PG Registration 21.1 Limits on Registration 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program 21.6 Course Registration 22 Academic Requirements 22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programme 22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements 23. Leave Rules 23.1 Leave 23.2 Other Leaves 23.3 Semester Withdrawa 23.4 Academic Leave 24. Financial Assistance 24.1 M.Sc. Program 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program 24.3 M.Tech. Program 24.4 Executive M Tech Program 24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 24.6 Ph.D. Program 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech./M.Sc._Project 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D./M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s) 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 26.8 Cancellation of Registration 26.9 Synopsis 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation 27. Graduation Requirements 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement 27.2 Academic 27.3 No Dues Clearance 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 27.5 Award of Degrees 28. AMENDMENTS Academic Regulations [Back to index] 1. Introduction [Back to index] Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop thehighest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledgecreation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities,social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would beable to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such asenergy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientificknowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness,humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular andextra-curricular activities on campus. The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life longprocess of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmesfocus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creativeinquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objectiveMind. The academic programmes are based on three tenets of (1) semester system, (2) CreditSystem and (3) Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a dulyconstituted Academic Committee (AC) through the office of Academics. The AC will be chairedby Dean (Academics). In the absence of Dean (Academics), Associate Dean (Academics-PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics).The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a highstandard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Withinthis broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes caninclude additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. Theseacademic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriatemodifications/ improvements as and when necessary. 2. Academic Session [Back to index] The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar [Back to index] The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 3. Registration [Back to index] Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she/he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late registration. 3.1 Provisional Registration A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 3.2 Late Registration If the student does not register by the date of late registration as mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he/she will be deregistered. The appeal against deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine. 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses A student may add or drop course(s) with approval ofthe Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. 3.4 Withdrawing from a Course After the last date of add-drop, a student will have theoption of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically withinfour weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. Thewithdrawn course will be mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘W’. 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration Absence for a period of four or more weeksDuring a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from allthe courses in that semester. 3.6 Summer Course Registration ​A department may offer summer courses to enable thestudents to clear their backlog courses and/or regular credit courses. A course will run duringsummer provided a faculty member(s) is available for running the course. The course is offeredon approval of the Dean. 4. Teaching and Evaluation [Back to index] 4.1 Teaching [Back to index] 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course is based on the number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course with a passing grade will earn equivalent number of credits. Based on required academic maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all parameters related to course numbering scheme. Table 4.1 Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1 Descriptions Offering Department/IDRP Course Type Level of Courses Unique Identification Number Indicates Fractal Categories See Table 4.2 See Table 4.3 See Table 4.4 This code will be given centrally by the office of academics 0: Regular, 1: Fractal-1, 2: Fractal-2, 3: Fractal-3 Note: Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0 Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1 Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming MEL7XX2 Fractal 3: Robot Control MEL7XX3 Table 4.2 Departmental Code S. N. Type Department/Platform/Office Department 1 ME Mechanical Engineering 2 CS Computer Science and Engineering 3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering 7 MT Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 8 CY Chemistry 9 MA Mathematics 10 PH Physics 11 HS Humanities and Social Science Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs) 12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology 14 IO Internet of Things and Applications 15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles (AUV) 16 QC Quantum Information and Computation 17 CG Cognitive Science 18 SH Smart Healthcare Others 19 OA Office of Academics 20 OS Office of Students Table 4.3 Types of Courses S. N. Course Type Category 1 L Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.) 2 P Practical / Practice based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc.) 3 D Project based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects) 4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis 6 Q Seminar Courses 7 S Independent Study 8 R Product Realization 9 E Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded) Table 4.4 Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100.0 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=0) 2 200.0 3 300.0 B.Tech. (Cr>=38) 4 400.0 B.Tech. (Cr>=75) 5 500.0 Preparatory Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes (NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree) M.Tech. (Cr=0)M. Sc. (Cr=0) 6 600.0 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=75)M.Sc. (Cr>=0)M.Tech. (Cr >= 0) 7 700.0 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=100)M.Sc. (Cr >=30)M.Tech. (Cr>=0)Ph.D. (Cr>=0) Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800.0 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. (Cr>=14) Ph.D. (Cr>=0) 4.1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved courses may be offered during any semester/summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses offered can be from one of the following categories: Regular Course: A regular course has 14 hours of class room engagement per one credit. A regular course can be under elective or core/compulsory categories.Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students register for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5 registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study course as per the following section. Self Study Course A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a self-study course are as follows:A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in self-study mode provided he/she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/interdisciplinary program committee. The final sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics).Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course.The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester.A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interestunder the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involvingan Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a senseof own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. Astudent having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with therecommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study courseare as follows: A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-studycourse not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program.Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of theprogram and will appear with the title “Independent Study” on the transcript. Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriaterecommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of anindependent-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics). Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course butlaboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integralpart of the course. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors, as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per Subsection 5.2. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either (i) direct contact (ii) synchronized remote contact (iii) guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and/or the students to be concurrently connected to the class-room interaction via electronic conferencing involving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours (typically 25%) of the stipulated contact hours. In guided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up study of an approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the senate, under supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring use of specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. The student shall have access to his/her answer paper(s) of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him/her by the Instructor(s) concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of the Instructor of the course being audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the student’s attendance falls below 75%, the student will be allowed to appear for the exams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75% will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the cut-off for C grade in a course. 4.2 Evaluation [Back to index] The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-papers and projects. The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each subject in each semester.Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses (less than 3 credits) must have at least one examination.The total weightage of examination component (three examinations for a 14 week long course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure.Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. Grading System [Back to index] 5.1 Letter Grades [Back to index] 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1 Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A* 10 Exceptional 2 A 10 Outstanding 3 A- 9 Excellent 4 B 8 Very Good 5 B- 7 Good 6 C 6 Average 7 C- 5 Below Average 8 D 4 Marginal 9 E 2 Poor 10 F 0 Fail 11 I Incomplete 12 S Satisfactory in Course 13 X Thesis Continuation 14 U Unsatisfactory 15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A* ‘A*’ grade has the same grade point as ‘A’ grade. The grade ‘A*’ indicates exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course/(s) in which the number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 % of the total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade ‘A*’ is not awarded for projects /seminars. 2 E ‘E’ Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the cutoff marks for ‘D’ Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute. Students who obtain an ‘E’ Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the ‘E’ grade converted to a ‘D’ Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have ‘E’ Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional examination for an ‘E’ Grade. The additional examination will be conducted within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any reason(s), he/she will not get any additional chance. If a student with ‘E’ grade in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an ‘F’ grade in the course, he/she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In case the course is an elective, the student may take the same course again or any other course. ‘E’ and ‘F’ Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA; however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An ‘I’ grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his/her request to denote incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An ‘I’ grade is awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for ‘I’ grade should be made at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation requirements for such students in the corresponding course(s) should be completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’ grade is converted to a regular grade. 4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the unsatisfactory (U) grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for continuation 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit or non-graded courses. 7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results [Back to index] The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and time line would be as per Academic Calendar.Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.Finalization of grades by instructorsGrade moderation by department/institute level committee for department/institute wide coursesRecommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a moderation committeeDisplay of grades by InstructorsGrade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head of the departmentApproval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PGs)Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PG)Approval of results by the Chairman SenateResults once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional cases, the Student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 5.3 Grade Point Averages [Back to index] 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades (A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D), except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation is based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. Grade Card and Transcript [Back to index] A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases [Back to index] The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 8. Make-up Examinations [Back to index] A student who has missed minor(s) or the major examination due to genuine reasons like illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The student should make an application to the Dean (Academics) through the course instructor within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of the following categories: Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the Medical Officer of the Institute that he/she was admitted in the Hospital during the period of the missed quiz/exam.Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital before they proceed for such consultation.Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital.A student staying outside the Campus permanently / temporarily must produce a medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent/guardian. A slot- wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup / supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no circumstances prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance. Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes [Back to index] 9. Undergraduate Programs [Back to index] IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) programs, and capability linked opportunities for undergraduate students through Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Department Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization (through Industrial Translation). 10. Undergraduate Admissions [Back to index] 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes [Back to index] 10.1.1 General Admissions Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi. Persons interested in these Programs are required to apply through the Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries. 10.1.3 Change/Enhancement of Program A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through branch change. A student can enhance his/her programme to a Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Major/Department Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization (through Industrial Translation). The rules governing these changes are given in Section 18 (branch change) and Section 11.2 (for all others). 10.2 Reservation Policy [Back to index] The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 10.3 Student Exchange Programme [Back to index] Student Exchange Program provides for a one/two-semester visit by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU) between the institutions. Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework/research at the Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework/research to the enrolled degree program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU). Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU. On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her/his program requirements which s/he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at the visited academic institution as an exchange student and other documents/material that the concerned DUGC may require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her/his programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence committee for its approval. Moreover, The credits/grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of his/her transcripts. IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester. The CGPA calculation based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be considered for award of prizes. Academic Regulations 10.4 Visiting Students [Back to index] A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean (Academics). A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute. 10.5 Cancellation of Admission [Back to index] Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s). Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements [Back to index] Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes. 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements [Back to index] 11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes [Back to index] The total credits for a course is calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spend by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 11.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 0.5 1.5 0.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students [Back to index] Major/Department Specialization Interdisciplinary Specialization Minor B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting (a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization A student should have earned minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end on 6th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization Students who have already opted for Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements (a) Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major/Department Specialization or Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree. Registration for Additional Courses for Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her/his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered. It will include credits earned for Major/Department or Minor/ Interdisciplinary area Specialization excluding the project credits. 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes [Back to index] Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table below: Course Categories and Academic requirements Table 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements S.N. Course Type Course Category B.Tech.Regular B.Tech.with Specialization Dual Degree 1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34.0 34.0 34.0 Science (IS) 16.0 16.0 16.0 Humanities (IH) 12.0 12.0 12.0 2 Programme Linked (L) Science (LS) 7.0 7.0 7.0 3 Programme Core (P) Programme Compulsory (PC) 50.0 50.0 50.0 Programme Electives (PE) 18.0 18.0 18.0 B.Tech. Project (PP) 3.0 3.0 3.0 4 Open (O) Electives (OE) 10.0 0.0 0.0 5 Specialization (Major/Minor/Department/Interdisciplinary) (S) Compulsory (SC) 0.0 8.0 8.0 Elective (SE) 0.0 12.0 12# 6 M.Tech. (M) in Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary Area Compulsory (MC) 0.0 0.0 9 Electives (ME) 0.0 0.0 5 Project (MP) 0.0 0.0 16 Open Electives (MO) 0.0 0.0 6 Total Graded 150.0 160.0 196 7 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6.0 6.0 6.0 Engineering (NE) 3.0 3.0 3.0 Design/Practical Experience (ND) 6.0 6.0 6.0 165.0 175.0 211 # Must not include any project course 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program [Back to index] The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters. 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements [Back to index] The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table: Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester Description Minimum number of credits to be earned GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS SC/ST/PD Minimum for Continuation 18 14 If a student does not meet the criterion specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once. If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes [Back to index] The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/ teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5. A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the 14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer vacations. 12. UG Registration [Back to index] 12.1 Summer Courses [Back to index] Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register during this period. For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration. In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance. The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 12.2 Limits on Registration [Back to index] An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits per semester for independent-study or self-study course 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load [Back to index] Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation) may register for a maximum of 16 credits. Over-load: Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation and satisfy one of the following criteria: Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to complete all the requirements of their programme. Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed to overload. 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme [Back to index] A B.Tech. Student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses [Back to index] 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation [Back to index] DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC) [Back to index] The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the convenor. 13.3 Engineering Innovation [Back to index] At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a reportwhich will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/ The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day ofthe class. 13.4 Design Project Evaluation [Back to index] At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project and S or U grade is awarded.Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project [Back to index] Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s).The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester.Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s).The evaluation criterion would be same as Section 25. The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25. 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project [Back to index] At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by Dean (Academics-UG)/Associate Dean (Academics-UG). The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. 14. Termination [Back to index] 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program [Back to index] A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student (a) Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR (b) Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR (c) Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee constituted for the purpose; OR (d) Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of the program; OR (e) Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters. 14.2 Appeal against Termination [Back to index] A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 15. Leave Rules [Back to index] Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DUGC. 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation [Back to index] Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 15.2 Short Leave [Back to index] A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason. 15.3 Semester Withdrawal [Back to index] It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 15.4 Academic Leave [Back to index] To help students broaden their horizons and gain course/work experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other academic institutes/ Industry/ R&D organization in India or abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Entrepreneurship initiative Product realization through industrial translation Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in India or abroad Internship work All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two semesters on academic leave.A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee. 16. Branch Change [Back to index] The branch change of the student in another branch and engineering science is permitted after the completion of the 1st year after completing all academic requirements of the credits including non-graded courses. The eligibility criteria of the branch change is as follows: E1: The student must have completed all prescribed course credits for the previous semesters (including the non-graded courses). E2: The student has no backlog. E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student. Table: Summary of branch change criteria for students in UG (B.Tech./ B.S.) Programs After Sem Branch Enrolled Branch Applied CGPA Eligibility Lower Limit Upper Limit II Any Any CGPA ≥ 8.5 Others CGPA ≥ 7.5 (For SC,ST, PWD) E1 E2 E3 90% of current Strength 110% of Sanctioned Strength II Any ES CGPA ≥ 8 Others CGPA ≥ 7 (For SC,ST, PWD) E1 E2 E3 90% of current Strength 30 Note: 1. No Branch Change post second year onwards. 2. This will be applicable to UG Students admitted in academic year 2025-26. 3. If the calculated upper limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the upper limit for seats will be the lower rounded number (floor operation). 4. If the calculated lower limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the lower limit for seats will be the higher rounded number (ceil operation). Discontinuation of Branch Change from Academic Year 2026–27 in UG Programs. 17. Requirements [Back to index] A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the conditions laid down in the following Clauses 17.1 to 17.4 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence [Back to index] Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence (in semesters) 1 B. Tech. (including minor/department/interdisciplinary area specialization) 6 2 B. Tech. – M.Tech. 8 17.2 Academic [Back to index] The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees. 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues [Back to index] The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics). 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action [Back to index] The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO [Back to index] The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports, National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two Semesters during their B.Tech. Program. 17.6 Award of Degrees [Back to index] 17.6.1 Provisional Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.2 Degree Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.3 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 18. Amendments [Back to index] Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs. Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes [Back to index] 19. Postgraduate Programmes [Back to index] The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate programmes. Master of Science (M.Sc.) Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) 20. Postgraduate admissions [Back to index] The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition, the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis and admit students as per the existing procedure. 20.1 Categories of Admission [Back to index] A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories Full-time regular Full-time sponsored Part-time External Executive However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program). i) Full-time Regular In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii) Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience. iii) Part-time A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. iv) External A student working in an industry/R&D establishment/academic institution which is equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v) Executive (only for M. Tech.) A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote contact mode and limited direct interaction 20.2 Eligibility for Admission [Back to index] The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate. The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate from time to time. Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of Governors. 20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular) The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.2 Admission to M Sc – M Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular) The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program (Regular) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4 year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program (Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field. A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). 20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme (QIP), Defence Personnel The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval of Chairman, Senate. 20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time of applying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category. Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for admission to the programme. The department’s recommendation will be sent to the Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad. The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be routed through the office of Dean R&D. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 20.4 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 21 PG Registration [Back to index] 21.1 Limits on Registration [Back to index] Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs: M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10 credits in a semester. M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.1. Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term M.Tech. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Regular Semester Executive (Accelerated) 24 10 Executive (Normal) 17 10 Executive (Slow-Paced) 12 3 Executive (Part-Time) 12 3 Full-time (Regular/Sponsored) 17 10 External 20 10 Part-time 12 3 Summer Term Executive (Accelerated) 16 0 Executive (Normal) 9 0 Executive (Slow-Paced) 6 0 Full-time (Regular) 9 5 Full-time (Sponsored) 9 0 External 9 0 Part-time 6 0 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term[Insert TableTable 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term] M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/Direct Ph.D. (Joining after B.Tech.) – The maximum and minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent to that of an M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student. Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.2. Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student (Regular) can register for during the Regular semester Ph.D. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 12 6 External 12 6 Part-Time 12 3 21.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA) A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean(academic). The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme [Back to index] A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth semester with the approval of DRC, provided his/her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be required to complete his/her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester. All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program [Back to index] A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may be allowed to change his/her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be counted towards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements. 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme [Back to index] A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement; get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC; produce a “No Objection” Certificate from his/her employer for carrying out the research work. 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program [Back to index] M.Sc. – 8 registered semester M.Tech. (Regular and Part-time/External/Executive) – 12 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as at of sponsored candidates. Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree (Regular and Part-time/External) – 14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC. 21.6 Course Registration [Back to index] Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and Table 4.4. The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during her/his Masters or Bachelors program. 22 Academic Requirements [Back to index] 22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programmes [Back to index] The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 22.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours# Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1.0 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1.0 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1.0 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. Table 22.2 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech./Ph.D. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours# Total Credits (TC=TH/4) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Thesis (Ph.D.) 0-0-1 1 3 4 1.0 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. h4> 22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes [Back to index] Compulsory Course (MC) Programme Elective (ME) Open Elective (MO) Project works (MP) Non-graded (NG) 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3. Table 22.3 Programs/ Credits to be earned for MSc students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. (Chemistry) 38 18 6 15 77 M.Sc. (Mathematics) 38 18 6 15 77 M.Sc. (Physics) 38 18 6 15 77 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 22.4. Table 22.4 Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing Engineering and Design) 19 15 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 6 16 4 61 M.Tech (Data and Computational Sciences) 20 15 6 16 4 61 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree [Back to index] Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3 and 22.4. 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for MTech – PhD dual degree students are given below in Table 22.5. Table 22.5 Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Communication and Signal Processing) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Manufacturing Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Design Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 6 16 4 61 The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students [Back to index] The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6. Table 22.6 Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1.0 Engineering discipline/IDRP M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 30 48 2.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 12 48 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements [Back to index] 22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7. Table 22.7 Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme For graduation 1 M.Sc. (only graduation requirement) Refer 22.8.2 5 2 M.Tech. 5 5 3 Dual Degree (M.Sc. and M.Tech.) 5 5 4 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7 7 5 Ph.D. 7 7.5 at completion of course work 22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.- The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for continuation in the program. 22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship is given in below Table 22.8 Table 22.8 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/Fellowship 1 M.Tech. 6.5 2 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7.0 3 Ph.D. 7.0 23. Leave Rules [Back to index] Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DRC. 23.1 Leave [Back to index] A maximum of 30 days in an academic year (including leave on medical grounds + mid semester break). The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer/winter term or mid-semester break. A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC without assistantship during that period. 23.2 Other Leaves [Back to index] Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme. Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD. 23.3 Semester Withdrawal [Back to index] May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 23.4 Academic Leave [Back to index] Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as indicated in his research proposal Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or abroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted. SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during academic leave A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 24. Financial Assistance [Back to index] Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 24.1 M.Sc. Program [Back to index] 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program [Back to index] A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of the second year with (a) CGPA>=8 OR (b) have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 24.3 M.Tech. Program [Back to index] A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 24.4 Executive M Tech Program [Back to index] Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute. 24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program [Back to index] Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with regular Ph.D. students. 24.6 Ph.D. Program [Back to index] A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. (a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master’s degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science departments. (b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-bachelor’s degree (c) A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the qualifier requirement. The Teaching/Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of the Thesis. 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech./M.Sc._Project [Back to index] Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee consisting of DRC, supervisor(s) and two members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer semester following 2 nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be evaluated by his supervisor. 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D./M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program [Back to index] 26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s) [Back to index] 26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research. There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of the candidate at the time of selection. 26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s) Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of selection. Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. – Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester The Convener, DRC (Department Research Committee)/Coordinator (Interdisciplinary Research Program) would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate. A supervisor from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the request of student/supervisor(s) with the recommendation of the DRC/IRC and the Dean (Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate. The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC/IRC (Interdisciplinary Research Committee) shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative requirements. Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisor’s retirement/resignation. 26.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee (DRC) The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor/Associate Professor proposed by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor/Associate Professor nominated by Head of the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The DRC has to be approved by Dean (Academics). Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 26.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor [Back to index] Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required, realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC. 26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) [Back to index] 26.3.1 Composition of SRC The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics). The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean (Academics). The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) [Back to index] The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii) A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the year. 2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the year. The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the supervisor(s) through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean (academics) 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student [Back to index] The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination 3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and in any case not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the seventh semester. 26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research. The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the Department/IDRP. The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area. The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within two weeks of SRC formation. All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days. A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt. For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: Ph.D. : within 3 semesters Direct Ph.D. and MTech – PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal. 26.5.3 Research Proposal Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the candidate. 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree [Back to index] A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D. degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program [Back to index] M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied. The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of registration. 26.8 Cancellation of Registration [Back to index] The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 26.9 Synopsis [Back to index] Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis report Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar date. If required, an extension of three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of SRC. If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis again. On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis, the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals/conference). 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation [Back to index] The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines should be followed The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners. The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, SRC and Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis. The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the external examiner. One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the Thesis. If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with the Supervisor(s). When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D. degree to the student. 27. Graduation Requirements [Back to index] A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement [Back to index] Table 27.1 Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration (in semesters) of Residence 1.0 M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4.0 2.0 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree All qualifying degrees 7.0 3.0 M.Tech. Programs Full-time Regular /Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3.0 Part-time/ Part-time Executive All qualifying degrees 0.0 Executive All qualifying degrees 1.0 4.0 Ph. D. Programs Full-time Regular Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 2.0 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5.0 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 5.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 2.0 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0.0 External All qualifying degrees 1.0 27.2 Academic [Back to index] The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 27.3 No Dues Clearance [Back to index] Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics) 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action [Back to index] The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 27.5 Award of Degrees [Back to index] 27.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 28. AMENDMENTS [Back to index] Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT-Jodhpur. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Welcome to The Office of Academics Academics Facilitates: (a) Admissions Prospectus: preparation & printing; Sale of Application Forms; Issue of Admit Cards for Admission Test; Setting of Test Papers; Conduct of Admission Test; Evaluation of Answer Scripts; Announcement of Results; Admission Interviews / Counseling; and Issue of Admission Letters. (b) Programs Course Registration; Semester Schedule; Scheduling of Mid- & End-semester examinations; Evaluation and Re-evaluation of exams; Grade records, Grade Cards, & Transcripts; Academic discipline & academic integrity; Campus Mentor Program (S-SM-FM interaction); Monitoring teaching and Faculty Member workload; and Student exchange; inter-areas of study transfer of students; Convocation; New Programs. Announcement Reporting of new PG students : 23-25 July 2025. Reporting of new UG Students : 28-29 July 2025. Commencement of classes : 31 July 2025. Offer letter for UG Students (B.Tech./BS) issued : 22 July onwards Fee link for UG Students (B.Tech./BS) will be activated : 22 July onwards Admission related query : 0291- 2801079/1136/1135 Academic Divisions Departments Schools IDRPs / IDRCs Centers Quick Access Academic Regulations Transcripts Download Forms Convocation Scholarships Fee Structure Ph.D. Thesis Defense List of Holidays Conversion-Medium of Teaching Circulars Program Details Program Structure Program Curriculum Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Download Forms Admission Forms: Annexure I Exemption form GATE (Open only on intranet) OBC-NCL Certificate Format (Form No. OBC-NCL) (Open only on intranet) Form GEN-EWS (Open only on intranet) Annexure II CFTI list (Open only on intranet) List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview (Form No. AD1) (Open only on intranet) Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for Ph.D. / IDRP – Ph.D./ M.Tech.-Ph.D. Admissions (Form No. AD2) (Open only on intranet) Proposal to admit New Ph.D. / IDRP-Ph.D./M.Tech.-Ph.D. Students with source of Assistantship (Form No. AD3) (Open only on intranet) Details of Current M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree, Ph.D. and IDRP – Ph.D. Students, who are paid Assistantship from MHRD Grant-in-Aid (Form No. AD4) (Open only on intranet) Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for M.Tech. Admissions- M.Tech. Direct Admissions Under Admission Category (Form No. AD5) (Open only on intranet) List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and/or Interview- M.Tech. Admission Under Admission Category (Form No. AD6) (Open only on intranet) Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for M.Tech. Admissions Under Admission Category (Form No. AD7) (Open only on intranet) Admission Guidelines: Modality of uploading PhD and MTech PhD results on Departmental webpages (Open only on intranet) Guidelines for PG Admissions (Open only on intranet) Under Graduate Forms: Application Form for B. Tech. Branch/ Discipline Change (A-9) (Open only on intranet) Leave Application Form (B. Tech.) (A-15) (Open only on intranet) M.Tech. / M.Sc. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: M.Sc./M.Tech. Supervisor Allocation Form (A-20) (Open only on intranet) M.Sc., M.Sc.-M.Tech. and M.Tech. Supervisor Allocation Form (A-20) (Open only on intranet) Report of M.Tech.-Ph.D. Project Evaluation (Form No. A-24) (Open only on intranet) Report of M.Sc./M.Tech. Project Evaluation (Form No. A-23) (Open only on intranet) Committee for Conduct and Evaluation of M.Sc./M.Tech. Project (Form No. 21) (Open only on intranet) Format and Guidelines for submission of final Project Report (Open only on intranet) SOP-For Online submission of project M.Sc. M.Tech. M.Sc.-M.Tech. (Open only on intranet) M.Tech. Guidelines: Master of Technology (M. Tech.) Thesis: Supervisor’s Certificate (Open only on intranet) Master of Technology (M. Tech.) Thesis: Student’s Certificate (Open only on intranet) Master of Technology (M. Tech.) Thesis Guidelines (Open only on intranet) Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled Before July 2019: Ph.D. Comprehensive Doctoral Committee (DC) Approval (A-1A) (Open only on intranet) Report of State of the Art Seminar (A-2) (Open only on intranet) Form for Inclusion of a Co-Supervisor (A-5) (Open only on intranet) Ph.D. Supervisor Allocation Form (A-6) (Open only on intranet) Performance Assessment of Thesis Work of Ph.D. Students (A-7) (Open only on intranet) Names of Proposed Ph.D. Thesis Examiners (A-8) (Open only on intranet) Final Contact Details of Proposed Ph.D. Thesis Examiners (A-10) (Open only on intranet) Report on Ph.D. Viva Voce Examination (A-13) (Open only on intranet) Honorarium to the Indian Examiner for Conducting Ph.D. Viva Voce Examination (A-14) (Open only on intranet) Completion of Open Seminar (A-17) (Open only on intranet) Submission of Thesis for Ph.D. Degree (A-18) (Open only on intranet) Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Student Research Committee (SRC) Form for Students Registered from July 2019 onwards (A-1A) (Open only on intranet) Report of Comprehensive Examination for students registered from July 2019 (A-1B) (Open only on intranet) Report of State of the Art Seminar Form for students registered from July 2019 (A-2) (Open only on intranet) Report of Research Proposal Submitted by SRC (Form No. A-7) (Open only on intranet) Details regarding Format for submission of Research Proposal for Ph.D. Student (Open only on intranet) Ph.D. Thesis Guidelines: Conduct of Courses and Conduct of Examinations (Open only on intranet) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Thesis Guidelines (Open only on intranet) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Thesis: Student’s Certificate (Open only on intranet) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Thesis: Supervisor’s Certificate (Open only on intranet) Course Contents for Ph.D. Comprehensive Exam From July 2019 onwards: Department of Chemical Engineering (Open only on intranet) IDRP on Space Science & Technologies (Open only on intranet) IDRP on Science of Intelligence (Open only on intranet) IDRP on Smart Healthcare (Open only on intranet) IDRP on Digital Humanities (Open only on intranet) IDRP on Quantum Information and Computation (Open only on intranet) IDRP on IoT and Applications (Open only on intranet) Department of Physics (Open only on intranet) Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering (Open only on intranet) Department of Mechanical Engineering (Open only on intranet) Department of Mathematics (Open only on intranet) Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (Open only on intranet) Department of Chemistry (Open only on intranet) Department of Computer Science and Engineering (Open only on intranet) Department of Electrical Engineering (Open only on intranet) Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering (Open only on intranet) IDRP-Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Report of Comprehensive Examination (Form No. IDRP-A1B) (Open only on intranet) Report of State of the Art Seminar (SOTA) (Form No. IDRP A-2) (Open only on intranet) IDRP-Ph.D Supervisor Allocation (Form No. IDRP-A5) (Open only on intranet) IDRP – Ph.D REPORT ON RESEARCH PROPOSAL SUBMITTED BY SRC (Form No. IDRP-A7) (Open only on intranet) Medical Technologies Program: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D Supervisor Allocation Form for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A1) (Open only on intranet) Masters Supervisor Allocation Form for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A2) (Open only on intranet) Report of State of the Art Seminar (SOTA) for Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A3) (Open only on intranet) Doctoral Committee (DC) Approval for Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A4) (Open only on intranet) Committee for Conduct and Evaluation of Masters and Masters-Ph.D. Project for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A5) (Open only on intranet) Report of Masters-Ph.D. Project Evaluation for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A6) (Open only on intranet) Report of Masters Project Evaluation for Joint Program (IDRP-MMT-A7) (Open only on intranet) Medical Technologies Guidelines: Guidelines and Format for submission of Project Report (Masters and Masters-Ph.D in Medical Technologies) (Open only on intranet) Project Proposal submission Template for IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs in Medical Technology (Open only on intranet) Common Forms: Deputation to Visit other Academic Institutes (A-3) (Open only on intranet) Permission for Attending Conferences, Workshops, Symposium (A-4) (Open only on intranet) Payment of Honorarium to Guest Faculty/Staff (A-12) (Open only on intranet) No Dues Certificate for PG Students (A-19) (Open only on intranet) CGPA Conversion and Medium of Teaching Certificate (Open only on intranet) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

About IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep. Discover More about IITJ Highlight View All Highlights Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nano architectonics and Recent Progresses MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview MBA 2026–28 Admissions date extended! Extension Notice for the post of Registrar, Advt. No: 62. ( 155 KB ) Advertisement for the post of Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation), IIT Jodhpur Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur ( 333 KB ) Latest News View All News Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal (Impact Factor = 13) Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) Announcement View All Announcements 1 Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur 2 List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II (December 2025) Event View All Events Mar 7 2026 National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026 Feb 2 2026 Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications Mar 21 2026 Skill Development Program on MATLAB/Simulink and Software-Defined Radio (SDR)-Based... Key Functionaries Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar Chairman, BoG Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal Director Student Life at IIT Jodhpur Student life at IIT Jodhpur is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom. The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society. Discover More about Student Life at IITJ Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Help The website will enable people with visual impairments access the website using assistive technologies, including screen readers. The information of the website is accessible with different screen readers, such as JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova and Window-Eyes. Following table lists the information about different screen readers: Information related to the various screen readers Screen Reader Website Free/Commercial Non Visual Desktop Access (NVDA) http://www.nvda-project.org/ Free System Access To Go http://www.satogo.com/ Free Hal http://www.yourdolphin.co.uk/productdetail.asp?id=5 Commercial JAWS http://www.freedomscientific.com/Products/software/JAWS/ Commercial Supernova http://www.yourdolphin.co.uk/productdetail.asp?id=1 Commercial Window-Eyes http://www.gwmicro.com/Window-Eyes/ Commercial Speech Recognition Support The information of the website is accessible with different speech recognition software, such as Dragon Naturally Speaking as well as Speech Recognition support available in Windows Vista and Windows 7 operating systems. Following table lists the information about different speech recognition software: Information related to Speech Recognition Software Speech Recognition Software Website Free/Commercial Windows Speech Recognition in Windows Vista http://www.microsoft.com/enable/products/windowsvista/speech.aspx Commercial Speech Recognition in Windows 7 http://www.microsoft.com/enable/products/windows7/ Commercial Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Search Here Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

शैक्षणिक विनियम S.No. Regulations governing Programs offered by the Institute for students 1. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards ( Download file: 536 KB) 1.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 2. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2020 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 2.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file: 280 KB) 3. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2021 onwards ( Download file : 536 KB ) 3.1 Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file : 280 KB ) 4. Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2022 onwards ( Download file: 441 KB) (Post Graduate Programmes) 5. Regulations for Joint Programmes in Medical Technologies 6. M.S. by Research Regulations for Students enrolled from July 2023 onwards ( Download file) 7. Amendments applicable for all students from Semester I Academic Year 2024-25 1. Amendment in the Attendance Policy of the Institute ( Download file) 2. Amendment in the Examination Policy of the Institute ( Download file) Rules & Regulations (For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards) ( Download file) Amendment – Revised Norms for Continuation of Program/Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards ( Download file) Academic Regulations Approved in July 2019 Academic Regulations Academic Regulations 2. Academic Session 2.1 Academic Calendar 3. Registration 3.1 Provisional Registration 3.2 Late Registration 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses 3.4 Withdrawing from a course 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration 3.6 Summer Course Registration 4. Teaching and Evaluation 4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction 4.1.2 Course Structure 4.1.3 Approval of Courses 4.1.4 List of Courses 4.1.5 Categories of Courses 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements 4.2 Evaluation 5. Grading System 5.1 Letter Grades 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average 6. Grade Card and Transcript 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases 8. Make-up Examinations Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes 9. Undergraduate Programs 10. Undergraduate Admissions 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes 10.2 Reservation Policy 10.3 Student Exchange Programme 10.4 Visiting Students 10.5 Cancellation of Admission 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements 11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 12. UG Registration 12.1 Summer Courses 12.2 Limits on Registration 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC) 13.3 Engineering Innovation 13.4 Design Project Evaluation 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project 14. Termination 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program 14.2 Appeal against Termination 15. Leave Rules 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation 15.2 Short Leave 15.3 Semester Withdrawal 15.4 Academic Leave 16. Branch Change 17. Requirements 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 17.2 Academic 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO 17.6 Award of Degrees 18. Amendments Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes 19. Postgraduate Programmes 20. Postgraduate admissions 20.1 Categories of Admission 20.2 Eligibility for Admission 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students 20.4 Reservation Policy 21 PG Registration 21.1 Limits on Registration 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program 21.6 Course Registration 22 Academic Requirements 22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programme 22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements 23. Leave Rules 23.1 Leave 23.2 Other Leaves 23.3 Semester Withdrawa 23.4 Academic Leave 24. Financial Assistance 24.1 M.Sc. Program 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program 24.3 M.Tech. Program 24.4 Executive M Tech Program 24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 24.6 Ph.D. Program 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech./M.Sc._Project 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D./M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s) 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 26.8 Cancellation of Registration 26.9 Synopsis 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation 27. Graduation Requirements 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement 27.2 Academic 27.3 No Dues Clearance 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 27.5 Award of Degrees 28. AMENDMENTS Academic Regulations [Back to index] 1. Introduction [Back to index] Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop thehighest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledgecreation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities,social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would beable to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such asenergy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientificknowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness,humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular andextra-curricular activities on campus. The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life longprocess of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmesfocus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creativeinquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objectiveMind. The academic programmes are based on three tenets of (1) semester system, (2) CreditSystem and (3) Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a dulyconstituted Academic Committee (AC) through the office of Academics. The AC will be chairedby Dean (Academics). In the absence of Dean (Academics), Associate Dean (Academics-PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics).The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a highstandard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Withinthis broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes caninclude additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. Theseacademic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriatemodifications/ improvements as and when necessary. 2. Academic Session [Back to index] The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar [Back to index] The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 3. Registration [Back to index] Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she/he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late registration. 3.1 Provisional Registration A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 3.2 Late Registration If the student does not register by the date of late registration as mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he/she will be deregistered. The appeal against deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine. 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses A student may add or drop course(s) with approval ofthe Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. 3.4 Withdrawing from a Course After the last date of add-drop, a student will have theoption of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically withinfour weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. Thewithdrawn course will be mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘W’. 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration Absence for a period of four or more weeksDuring a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from allthe courses in that semester. 3.6 Summer Course Registration ​A department may offer summer courses to enable thestudents to clear their backlog courses and/or regular credit courses. A course will run duringsummer provided a faculty member(s) is available for running the course. The course is offeredon approval of the Dean. 4. Teaching and Evaluation [Back to index] 4.1 Teaching [Back to index] 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course is based on the number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course with a passing grade will earn equivalent number of credits. Based on required academic maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all parameters related to course numbering scheme. Table 4.1 Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1 Descriptions Offering Department/IDRP Course Type Level of Courses Unique Identification Number Indicates Fractal Categories See Table 4.2 See Table 4.3 See Table 4.4 This code will be given centrally by the office of academics 0: Regular, 1: Fractal-1, 2: Fractal-2, 3: Fractal-3 Note: Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0 Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1 Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming MEL7XX2 Fractal 3: Robot Control MEL7XX3 Table 4.2 Departmental Code S. N. Type Department/Platform/Office Department 1 ME Mechanical Engineering 2 CS Computer Science and Engineering 3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering 7 MT Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 8 CY Chemistry 9 MA Mathematics 10 PH Physics 11 HS Humanities and Social Science Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs) 12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology 14 IO Internet of Things and Applications 15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles (AUV) 16 QC Quantum Information and Computation 17 CG Cognitive Science 18 SH Smart Healthcare Others 19 OA Office of Academics 20 OS Office of Students Table 4.3 Types of Courses S. N. Course Type Category 1 L Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.) 2 P Practical / Practice based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc.) 3 D Project based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects) 4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis 6 Q Seminar Courses 7 S Independent Study 8 R Product Realization 9 E Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded) Table 4.4 Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100.0 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=0) 2 200.0 3 300.0 B.Tech. (Cr>=38) 4 400.0 B.Tech. (Cr>=75) 5 500.0 Preparatory Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes (NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree) M.Tech. (Cr=0)M. Sc. (Cr=0) 6 600.0 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=75)M.Sc. (Cr>=0)M.Tech. (Cr >= 0) 7 700.0 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=100)M.Sc. (Cr >=30)M.Tech. (Cr>=0)Ph.D. (Cr>=0) Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800.0 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. (Cr>=14) Ph.D. (Cr>=0) 4.1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved courses may be offered during any semester/summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses offered can be from one of the following categories: Regular Course: A regular course has 14 hours of class room engagement per one credit. A regular course can be under elective or core/compulsory categories.Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students register for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5 registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study course as per the following section. Self Study Course A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a self-study course are as follows:A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in self-study mode provided he/she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/interdisciplinary program committee. The final sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics).Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course.The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester.A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interestunder the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involvingan Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a senseof own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. Astudent having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with therecommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study courseare as follows: A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-studycourse not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program.Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of theprogram and will appear with the title “Independent Study” on the transcript. Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriaterecommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of anindependent-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics). Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course butlaboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integralpart of the course. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors, as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per Subsection 5.2. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either (i) direct contact (ii) synchronized remote contact (iii) guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and/or the students to be concurrently connected to the class-room interaction via electronic conferencing involving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours (typically 25%) of the stipulated contact hours. In guided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up study of an approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the senate, under supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring use of specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. The student shall have access to his/her answer paper(s) of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him/her by the Instructor(s) concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of the Instructor of the course being audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the student’s attendance falls below 75%, the student will be allowed to appear for the exams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75% will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the cut-off for C grade in a course. 4.2 Evaluation [Back to index] The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-papers and projects. The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each subject in each semester.Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses (less than 3 credits) must have at least one examination.The total weightage of examination component (three examinations for a 14 week long course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure.Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. Grading System [Back to index] 5.1 Letter Grades [Back to index] 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1 Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A* 10 Exceptional 2 A 10 Outstanding 3 A- 9 Excellent 4 B 8 Very Good 5 B- 7 Good 6 C 6 Average 7 C- 5 Below Average 8 D 4 Marginal 9 E 2 Poor 10 F 0 Fail 11 I Incomplete 12 S Satisfactory in Course 13 X Thesis Continuation 14 U Unsatisfactory 15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A* ‘A*’ grade has the same grade point as ‘A’ grade. The grade ‘A*’ indicates exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course/(s) in which the number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 % of the total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade ‘A*’ is not awarded for projects /seminars. 2 E ‘E’ Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the cutoff marks for ‘D’ Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute. Students who obtain an ‘E’ Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the ‘E’ grade converted to a ‘D’ Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have ‘E’ Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional examination for an ‘E’ Grade. The additional examination will be conducted within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any reason(s), he/she will not get any additional chance. If a student with ‘E’ grade in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an ‘F’ grade in the course, he/she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In case the course is an elective, the student may take the same course again or any other course. ‘E’ and ‘F’ Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA; however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An ‘I’ grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his/her request to denote incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An ‘I’ grade is awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for ‘I’ grade should be made at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation requirements for such students in the corresponding course(s) should be completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’ grade is converted to a regular grade. 4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the unsatisfactory (U) grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for continuation 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit or non-graded courses. 7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results [Back to index] The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and time line would be as per Academic Calendar.Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.Finalization of grades by instructorsGrade moderation by department/institute level committee for department/institute wide coursesRecommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a moderation committeeDisplay of grades by InstructorsGrade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head of the departmentApproval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PGs)Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PG)Approval of results by the Chairman SenateResults once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional cases, the Student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 5.3 Grade Point Averages [Back to index] 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades (A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D), except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation is based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. Grade Card and Transcript [Back to index] A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases [Back to index] The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 8. Make-up Examinations [Back to index] A student who has missed minor(s) or the major examination due to genuine reasons like illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The student should make an application to the Dean (Academics) through the course instructor within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of the following categories: Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the Medical Officer of the Institute that he/she was admitted in the Hospital during the period of the missed quiz/exam.Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital before they proceed for such consultation.Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital.A student staying outside the Campus permanently / temporarily must produce a medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent/guardian. A slot- wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup / supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no circumstances prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance. Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes [Back to index] 9. Undergraduate Programs [Back to index] IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) programs, and capability linked opportunities for undergraduate students through Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Department Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization (through Industrial Translation). 10. Undergraduate Admissions [Back to index] 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes [Back to index] 10.1.1 General Admissions Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi. Persons interested in these Programs are required to apply through the Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries. 10.1.3 Change/Enhancement of Program A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through branch change. A student can enhance his/her programme to a Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Major/Department Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization (through Industrial Translation). The rules governing these changes are given in Section 18 (branch change) and Section 11.2 (for all others). 10.2 Reservation Policy [Back to index] The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 10.3 Student Exchange Programme [Back to index] Student Exchange Program provides for a one/two-semester visit by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU) between the institutions. Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework/research at the Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework/research to the enrolled degree program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU). Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU. On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her/his program requirements which s/he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at the visited academic institution as an exchange student and other documents/material that the concerned DUGC may require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her/his programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence committee for its approval. Moreover, The credits/grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of his/her transcripts. IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester. The CGPA calculation based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be considered for award of prizes. Academic Regulations 10.4 Visiting Students [Back to index] A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean (Academics). A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute. 10.5 Cancellation of Admission [Back to index] Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s). Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements [Back to index] Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes. 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements [Back to index] 11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes [Back to index] The total credits for a course is calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spend by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 11.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 0.5 1.5 0.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students [Back to index] Major/Department Specialization Interdisciplinary Specialization Minor B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting (a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization A student should have earned minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end on 6th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization Students who have already opted for Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements (a) Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major/Department Specialization or Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree. Registration for Additional Courses for Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her/his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered. It will include credits earned for Major/Department or Minor/ Interdisciplinary area Specialization excluding the project credits. 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes [Back to index] Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table below: Course Categories and Academic requirements Table 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements S.N. Course Type Course Category B.Tech.Regular B.Tech.with Specialization Dual Degree 1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34.0 34.0 34.0 Science (IS) 16.0 16.0 16.0 Humanities (IH) 12.0 12.0 12.0 2 Programme Linked (L) Science (LS) 7.0 7.0 7.0 3 Programme Core (P) Programme Compulsory (PC) 50.0 50.0 50.0 Programme Electives (PE) 18.0 18.0 18.0 B.Tech. Project (PP) 3.0 3.0 3.0 4 Open (O) Electives (OE) 10.0 0.0 0.0 5 Specialization (Major/Minor/Department/Interdisciplinary) (S) Compulsory (SC) 0.0 8.0 8.0 Elective (SE) 0.0 12.0 12# 6 M.Tech. (M) in Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary Area Compulsory (MC) 0.0 0.0 9 Electives (ME) 0.0 0.0 5 Project (MP) 0.0 0.0 16 Open Electives (MO) 0.0 0.0 6 Total Graded 150.0 160.0 196 7 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6.0 6.0 6.0 Engineering (NE) 3.0 3.0 3.0 Design/Practical Experience (ND) 6.0 6.0 6.0 165.0 175.0 211 # Must not include any project course 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program [Back to index] The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters. 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements [Back to index] The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table: Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester Description Minimum number of credits to be earned GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS SC/ST/PD Minimum for Continuation 18 14 If a student does not meet the criterion specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once. If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes [Back to index] The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/ teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5. A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the 14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer vacations. 12. UG Registration [Back to index] 12.1 Summer Courses [Back to index] Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register during this period. For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration. In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance. The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 12.2 Limits on Registration [Back to index] An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits per semester for independent-study or self-study course 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load [Back to index] Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation) may register for a maximum of 16 credits. Over-load: Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation and satisfy one of the following criteria: Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to complete all the requirements of their programme. Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed to overload. 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme [Back to index] A B.Tech. Student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses [Back to index] 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation [Back to index] DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC) [Back to index] The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the convenor. 13.3 Engineering Innovation [Back to index] At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a reportwhich will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/ The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day ofthe class. 13.4 Design Project Evaluation [Back to index] At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project and S or U grade is awarded.Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project [Back to index] Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s).The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester.Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s).The evaluation criterion would be same as Section 25. The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25. 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project [Back to index] At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by Dean (Academics-UG)/Associate Dean (Academics-UG). The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. 14. Termination [Back to index] 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program [Back to index] A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student (a) Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR (b) Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR (c) Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee constituted for the purpose; OR (d) Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of the program; OR (e) Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters. 14.2 Appeal against Termination [Back to index] A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 15. Leave Rules [Back to index] Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DUGC. 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation [Back to index] Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 15.2 Short Leave [Back to index] A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason. 15.3 Semester Withdrawal [Back to index] It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 15.4 Academic Leave [Back to index] To help students broaden their horizons and gain course/work experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other academic institutes/ Industry/ R&D organization in India or abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Entrepreneurship initiative Product realization through industrial translation Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in India or abroad Internship work All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two semesters on academic leave.A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee. 16. Branch Change [Back to index] The branch change of the student in another branch and engineering science is permitted after the completion of the 1st year after completing all academic requirements of the credits including non-graded courses. The eligibility criteria of the branch change is as follows: E1: The student must have completed all prescribed course credits for the previous semesters (including the non-graded courses). E2: The student has no backlog. E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student. Table: Summary of branch change criteria for students in UG (B.Tech./ B.S.) Programs After Sem Branch Enrolled Branch Applied CGPA Eligibility Lower Limit Upper Limit II Any Any CGPA ≥ 8.5 Others CGPA ≥ 7.5 (For SC,ST, PWD) E1 E2 E3 90% of current Strength 110% of Sanctioned Strength II Any ES CGPA ≥ 8 Others CGPA ≥ 7 (For SC,ST, PWD) E1 E2 E3 90% of current Strength 30 Note: 1. No Branch Change post second year onwards. 2. This will be applicable to UG Students admitted in academic year 2025-26. 3. If the calculated upper limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the upper limit for seats will be the lower rounded number (floor operation). 4. If the calculated lower limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the lower limit for seats will be the higher rounded number (ceil operation). 17. Requirements [Back to index] A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the conditions laid down in the following Clauses 17.1 to 17.4 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence [Back to index] Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence (in semesters) 1 B. Tech. (including minor/department/interdisciplinary area specialization) 6 2 B. Tech. – M.Tech. 8 17.2 Academic [Back to index] The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees. 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues [Back to index] The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics). 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action [Back to index] The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO [Back to index] The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports, National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two Semesters during their B.Tech. Program. 17.6 Award of Degrees [Back to index] 17.6.1 Provisional Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.2 Degree Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.3 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 18. Amendments [Back to index] Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs. Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes [Back to index] 19. Postgraduate Programmes [Back to index] The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate programmes. Master of Science (M.Sc.) Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) 20. Postgraduate admissions [Back to index] The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition, the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis and admit students as per the existing procedure. 20.1 Categories of Admission [Back to index] A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories Full-time regular Full-time sponsored Part-time External Executive However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program). i) Full-time Regular In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii) Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience. iii) Part-time A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. iv) External A student working in an industry/R&D establishment/academic institution which is equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v) Executive (only for M. Tech.) A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote contact mode and limited direct interaction 20.2 Eligibility for Admission [Back to index] The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate. The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate from time to time. Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of Governors. 20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular) The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.2 Admission to M Sc – M Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular) The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program (Regular) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4 year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program (Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field. A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). 20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme (QIP), Defence Personnel The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval of Chairman, Senate. 20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time of applying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category. Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for admission to the programme. The department’s recommendation will be sent to the Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad. The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be routed through the office of Dean R&D. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 20.4 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 21 PG Registration [Back to index] 21.1 Limits on Registration [Back to index] Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs: M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10 credits in a semester. M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.1. Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term M.Tech. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Regular Semester Executive (Accelerated) 24 10 Executive (Normal) 17 10 Executive (Slow-Paced) 12 3 Executive (Part-Time) 12 3 Full-time (Regular/Sponsored) 17 10 External 20 10 Part-time 12 3 Summer Term Executive (Accelerated) 16 0 Executive (Normal) 9 0 Executive (Slow-Paced) 6 0 Full-time (Regular) 9 5 Full-time (Sponsored) 9 0 External 9 0 Part-time 6 0 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term[Insert TableTable 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term] M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/Direct Ph.D. (Joining after B.Tech.) – The maximum and minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent to that of an M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student. Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.2. Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student (Regular) can register for during the Regular semester Ph.D. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 12 6 External 12 6 Part-Time 12 3 21.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA) A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean(academic). The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme [Back to index] A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth semester with the approval of DRC, provided his/her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be required to complete his/her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester. All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program [Back to index] A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may be allowed to change his/her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be counted towards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements. 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme [Back to index] A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement; get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC; produce a “No Objection” Certificate from his/her employer for carrying out the research work. 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program [Back to index] M.Sc. – 8 registered semester M.Tech. (Regular and Part-time/External/Executive) – 12 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as at of sponsored candidates. Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree (Regular and Part-time/External) – 14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC. 21.6 Course Registration [Back to index] Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and Table 4.4. The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during her/his Masters or Bachelors program. 22 Academic Requirements [Back to index] 22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programmes [Back to index] The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 22.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours# Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1.0 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1.0 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1.0 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. Table 22.2 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech./Ph.D. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours# Total Credits (TC=TH/4) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 3 4 1.0 1 hour of Thesis (Ph.D.) 0-0-1 1 3 4 1.0 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. h4> 22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes [Back to index] Compulsory Course (MC) Programme Elective (ME) Open Elective (MO) Project works (MP) Non-graded (NG) 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3. Table 22.3 Programs/ Credits to be earned for MSc students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. (Chemistry) 38 18 6 15 77 M.Sc. (Mathematics) 38 18 6 15 77 M.Sc. (Physics) 38 18 6 15 77 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 22.4. Table 22.4 Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing Engineering and Design) 19 15 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 6 16 4 61 M.Tech (Data and Computational Sciences) 20 15 6 16 4 61 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree [Back to index] Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. – M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3 and 22.4. 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree [Back to index] Course categories and academic requirements for MTech – PhD dual degree students are given below in Table 22.5. Table 22.5 Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Communication and Signal Processing) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Manufacturing Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Design Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 6 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 6 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 6 16 4 61 The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students [Back to index] The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6. Table 22.6 Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1.0 Engineering discipline/IDRP M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 30 48 2.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 12 48 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements [Back to index] 22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7. Table 22.7 Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme For graduation 1 M.Sc. (only graduation requirement) Refer 22.8.2 5 2 M.Tech. 5 5 3 Dual Degree (M.Sc. and M.Tech.) 5 5 4 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7 7 5 Ph.D. 7 7.5 at completion of course work 22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.- The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for continuation in the program. 22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship is given in below Table 22.8 Table 22.8 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/Fellowship 1 M.Tech. 6.5 2 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7.0 3 Ph.D. 7.0 23. Leave Rules [Back to index] Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DRC. 23.1 Leave [Back to index] A maximum of 30 days in an academic year (including leave on medical grounds + mid semester break). The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer/winter term or mid-semester break. A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC without assistantship during that period. 23.2 Other Leaves [Back to index] Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme. Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD. 23.3 Semester Withdrawal [Back to index] May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 23.4 Academic Leave [Back to index] Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as indicated in his research proposal Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or abroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted. SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during academic leave A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 24. Financial Assistance [Back to index] Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 24.1 M.Sc. Program [Back to index] 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program [Back to index] A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of the second year with (a) CGPA>=8 OR (b) have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 24.3 M.Tech. Program [Back to index] A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 24.4 Executive M Tech Program [Back to index] Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute. 24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program [Back to index] Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with regular Ph.D. students. 24.6 Ph.D. Program [Back to index] A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. (a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master’s degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science departments. (b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-bachelor’s degree (c) A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the qualifier requirement. The Teaching/Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of the Thesis. 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech./M.Sc._Project [Back to index] Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee consisting of DRC, supervisor(s) and two members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer semester following 2 nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be evaluated by his supervisor. 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D./M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program [Back to index] 26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s) [Back to index] 26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research. There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of the candidate at the time of selection. 26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s) Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of selection. Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. – Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester The Convener, DRC (Department Research Committee)/Coordinator (Interdisciplinary Research Program) would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate. A supervisor from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the request of student/supervisor(s) with the recommendation of the DRC/IRC and the Dean (Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate. The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC/IRC (Interdisciplinary Research Committee) shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative requirements. Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisor’s retirement/resignation. 26.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee (DRC) The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor/Associate Professor proposed by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor/Associate Professor nominated by Head of the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The DRC has to be approved by Dean (Academics). Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 26.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor [Back to index] Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required, realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC. 26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) [Back to index] 26.3.1 Composition of SRC The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics). The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean (Academics). The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) [Back to index] The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii) A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the year. 2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the year. The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the supervisor(s) through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean (academics) 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student [Back to index] The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination 3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and in any case not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the seventh semester. 26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research. The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the Department/IDRP. The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area. The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within two weeks of SRC formation. All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days. A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt. For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: Ph.D. : within 3 semesters Direct Ph.D. and MTech – PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal. 26.5.3 Research Proposal Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the candidate. 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree [Back to index] A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D. degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program [Back to index] M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied. The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of registration. 26.8 Cancellation of Registration [Back to index] The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 26.9 Synopsis [Back to index] Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis report Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar date. If required, an extension of three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of SRC. If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis again. On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis, the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals/conference). 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation [Back to index] The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines should be followed The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners. The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, SRC and Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis. The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the external examiner. One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the Thesis. If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with the Supervisor(s). When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D. degree to the student. 27. Graduation Requirements [Back to index] A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement [Back to index] Table 27.1 Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration (in semesters) of Residence 1.0 M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4.0 2.0 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree All qualifying degrees 7.0 3.0 M.Tech. Programs Full-time Regular /Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3.0 Part-time/ Part-time Executive All qualifying degrees 0.0 Executive All qualifying degrees 1.0 4.0 Ph. D. Programs Full-time Regular Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 2.0 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5.0 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 5.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 2.0 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0.0 External All qualifying degrees 1.0 27.2 Academic [Back to index] The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 27.3 No Dues Clearance [Back to index] Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics) 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action [Back to index] The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 27.5 Award of Degrees [Back to index] 27.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 28. AMENDMENTS [Back to index] Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT-Jodhpur. महत्वपूर्ण लिंक स्मारक दिवस @ भा. प्रौ. सं. जोधपुर भर्ती पत्र-व्यवहार सूचना का अधिकार निविदाओं टेकस्केप संपर्क पुरानी वेबसाइट राष्ट्रीय साइबर अपराध रिपोर्टिंग पोर्टल भा. प्रौ. सं. जोधपुर कैसे पहुंचें? संस्थान रिपोजिटरी अनुदान वेब नीति वेब सूचना प्रबंधक प्रतिक्रिया CERT-इन सहायता एनआईआरएफ आंतरिक समिति इंट्रानेट लिंक कॉपीराइट © 2025 सभी अधिकार सुरक्षित | यह पोर्टल डिजिटल इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर एंड ऑटोमेशन , भा. प्रौ. सं. जोधपुर द्वारा स्वामित्व, डिज़ाइन और विकसित किया गया है। एन.एच. 62, नागौर रोड, कारवार, जोधपुर - 342030 राजस्थान (भारत) किसी भी टिप्पणी / पूछताछ / प्रतिक्रिया के लिए, कृपया डब्ल्यू आई एम को ईमेल करें। Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Sitemap This is an alphabetical list of pages. Jump To : A - B - C - D - E - F - G - H - I - J - K - L - M - N - O - P - Q - R - S - T - U - V - W - X - Y - Z - A About Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) About Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) About Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling (VTU) About Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center (IITJ-TISC) About CoEs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science About Dean of Administration Department : Office of Administration About Digital Infrastructure & Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) About Director Department : Office of Director About Facilities Department : Chemistry About FAQs Department : Bachelor of Technology About PI Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) About Program Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion About Recruitment Department : Chemical Engineering About Regional Coordinating Institutions (RCIs) Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) About Research Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering About Research Department : Chemistry About Research Department : Mechanical Engineering About Research Department : Digital Humanities About Research Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion About Research Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science About Research Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) About RuTAG Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development About SME Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship About Sustainability Plan Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development About Us Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy About Us Department : Office of Research & Development About Us Department : Office of Stores & Purchase About Us Department : Office of Security & Transports About Us Department : Office of Estate About Us Department : Visitors Hostel About Us Department : Office of Publications About Us LIFE@SME Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Academic & Research Facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology Academic Calendar Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Outreach Department : School of Liberal Arts Academic Programs Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Regulations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Users Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Academics Department : Office of Students Academics Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Accessible Department : Institute Repository Office of Accounts Activities Department : Office of Resources and Alumni (DORA) Acts & Statutes Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Adjunct Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Administration Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Admission Links Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Admission MDes XR Design Department : School of Design Admission to M.Tech. Degree Programmes Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admission to two-year M.Des. in Smart Product Design, AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admission to two-year M.Des. in XR Design, AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admissions Department : Digital Humanities Admissions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Advanced Digital VLSI Circuit Design Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory Department : Chemistry Advanced Manufacturing Department : Mechanical Engineering Advanced Materials and Future Technologies for Solar Energy Conversion Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Advertisements Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Advisors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Affiliated Faculty Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur AI & DS Ecosystem Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science AI and Economics Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science AI and Ethics Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science AI for Technology: Language and Vision Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science AI-Driven Healthcare Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science AIoT Fab Facilities Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility All Announcements Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Events Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Issues Department : Techscape All News Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All News Department : Office of Research & Development All Research Highlights Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Security Alerts (Archive) Department : Cyber Security Alumni Department : School of Liberal Arts Alumni Department : Chemical Engineering Alumni Department : Computer Science & Engineering Alumni Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Alumni Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Alumni Global Presence Department : Office of International Relations Analytical and Physical Chemistry Laboratory Department : Chemistry Annoncement (Round 2) Department : Mathematics Annoncement Archive Department : Computer Science & Engineering Announcement Department : Mathematics Announcement Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Announcement DCS Department : Mathematics Announcements Department : Computer Science & Engineering Announcements Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Annual Reports of the Institute Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Applicant's Qualifications Department : Faculty Positions Applications of Advanced Technologies for Desert Warfare (ATDW) Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) Apply Online Department : Bachelor of Technology Apply Online Department : Master of Science Apply Online Department : Master of Technology Apply Online Department : Doctor of Philosophy Archive Department : Winter School ARIIA 2019-20 Department : Institute Repository ARIIA Report Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Department : Computer Science & Engineering Artificial Intelligence for Information and War Gaming Technologies (AIWT) Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Department : Electrical Engineering Ashirvad Water Challenge Consultancy Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Ashirvad Water Challenge Consultancy Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assessment of Greywater Management Practices in Danwara and Hardhani villages Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assessment of Water Supply Schemes in PHED to IITJ-JJM Centre Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assets Department : Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) Assistantship Department : Master of Science Asymmetric Catalysis and Continuous Flow Chemistry Department : Chemistry Atomic Absorption Spectrometer (AAS) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Automotive Propulsion Department : Mechanical Engineering Award/Grant archive Department : Computer Science & Engineering Awards Department : Office of Resources and Alumni (DORA) B B.S. Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Sc / B.S in Applied AI and Data Science Department : Executive Programs B.Tech Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering B.Tech Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering B.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Bioengineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Chemical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Computer Science & Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Electrical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Materials Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs Background Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Become a Sponsor Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Behavior, Cognition and Brain Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Behavioral Studies Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) BET Surface Area & Pore Size Analyser Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Biomaterials & Tissue Engineering Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Biophysics Laboratory Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Bioscience & Bioengineering Blended Learning and Flipped Classroom Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Booking and Usage Charges Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Booking for External Sample Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Booking for External Sample Department : Chemistry Booking for Internal Sample Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Booking for Internal Sample Department : Chemistry Broad Functions Department : Office of Registrar Brochure Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Brochure Department : Institute Repository BS (Chemistry) with Specialization Department : Office of Academics Affairs BS (Physics) with Specialization Department : Office of Academics Affairs BTech Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Building & Works Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur C C Ganga Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development C-H functionalization and Photoredox Catalysis Laboratory Department : Chemistry Calender Department : Electrical Engineering Campus Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Campus Immersion Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Campus Infrastructure Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Campus Life Department : Office of Students Campus Life @ IITJ Department : Bachelor of Technology Campus Sustainability Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Campus Sustainability Projects with OIE Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Capability Deck Department : Office of Corporate Relations Capacity Building Department : Centre for Digital Health Capacity Building Department : Manekshaw Centre (MCOENSSR) Capacity Building Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 20 October 2022 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 21 December 2023 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 21 September 2023 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 23 December 2024 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 23 September 2025 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 25 September 2024 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on December 2025 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on World Water Day (22 March 2023) Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on World Water Day (22 March 2025) Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ CAT Cut-offs Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Catalytic Surface Analyzer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Cell & Molecular Physiology Laboratory Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Central Research Facility (CRF) Central Workshop Department : Mechanical Engineering Centre Offerings Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETE Faculty and Student Colloquium Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) CGPA Conversion & Medium of Teaching Department : Office of Academics Affairs Chairman, BoG Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Chairpersons/Coordinators of Committees Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Chemical Biology Laboratory Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering ChemMeet 2024 Department : Chemistry Chromatography Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Circular विभाग : Office of Registrar Circulars Department : Office of Academics Affairs Cognitive Engineering Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Collaboration Department : Office of Research & Development Collaboration with Academia Department : Office of Academics Affairs Collaboration with Industry Department : Office of Academics Affairs Collaborations Department : Chemical Engineering Collaborations Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Collaborations Department : Electrical Engineering Collaborations Department : Mechanical Engineering Collaborations Department : Chemistry Collaborations Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Collaborations Department : Mathematics Collaborations Department : Physics Collaborations Department : Materials Engineering Collaborations Department : Office of International Relations Collaborations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Committee Department : Winter School Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Committee Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Companies Oversight Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Competition Details Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Complaint / Suggestion Department : Office of Logistics & Facilities (LF) Completed Projects Department : Chemical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Completed Projects Department : Electrical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Mechanical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Chemistry Completed Projects Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Completed Projects Department : Mathematics Completed Projects Department : Physics Completed Projects Department : Materials Engineering Completed Projects Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Computational Biology & Bioinformatics Laboratory Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Computational Chemistry Department : Chemistry Computational Economics Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Computational Intelligence Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Computational Laboratory Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Compute Resources Department : Computer Science & Engineering Computer Center Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Computing Facilities Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Computing Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Department : Physics Constitution of the Board of Governors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Constitution of the Senate Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur contact Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Contact Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Contact Department : Doctor of Philosophy Contact Department : Master of Science Contact Department : Master of Technology Contact Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Contact Department : Health Center Contact Department : Legal Cell Contact Department : Office of Accounts Contact Department : Office of Administration Contact Department : Office of Alumni Affairs Contact Department : Office of Training and Placement Contact Department : Office of Faculty Affairs/ Establishment (E-I) Contact Department : Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty) Contact Department : Office of Estate Contact Department : Office of Infrastructure Engineering Contact Department : Office of Internal Audit Contact Department : Office of International Relations Contact Department : Office of Publications Contact Department : Office of Registrar Contact Department : Office of Research & Development Contact Department : Office of Students Contact Department : Office of Stores & Purchase Contact Department : RTI Cell Contact Department : Office of Security & Transports Contact Department : Visitors Hostel Contact Department : Office of IITJ Connect & PRO Contact Department : Office of Academics Affairs Contact Department : Bachelor of Technology Contact Department : Chemical Engineering Contact Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Contact Department : Electrical Engineering Contact Department : Mechanical Engineering Contact Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Contact Department : Mathematics Contact Department : Physics Contact Department : Materials Engineering Contact Department : Chemistry Contact Department : Computer Science & Engineering Contact Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Contact Department : Digital Humanities Contact Department : Space Technology Contact Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Contact Department : Centre for Digital Health Contact Department : Quantum Information and Computation Contact Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Contact Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Contact Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Contact Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Contact Department : School of Liberal Arts Contact Department : Office of Director Contact Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Contact Department : School of Design Contact Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Contact Department : Winter School Contact Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Contact Department : Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) Contact Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Contact Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Contact Department : Integrated Teacher Education Programme Contact Department : Techscape Contact Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Contact Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Contact Department : Office of Executive Education Contact Department : Inclusivity Cell Contact Department : Lecture Series Contact Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Contact Department : IMPRINT India Contact Department : Ishaan Vikaas Program Contact Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) Contact Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Contact Department : Support IIT Jodhpur Contact Department : Medical Technologies Contact Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Contact Department : Office of Deputy Director Contact Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Contact Department : Hindi Cell Contact Department : Green Cell Contact Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) Contact Department : Office of Establishment (Non-Faculty) Contact Department : Manekshaw Centre (MCOENSSR) Contact Department : Office of Corporate Relations Contact Department : Cyber Security Contact Department : Engineering Science Contact Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Contact Department : Office of Resources and Alumni (DORA) Contact Department : Office of Logistics & Facilities (LF) Contact Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling (VTU) Contact Department : Jodhpur Hydrogen Valley Innovation Foundation (JHVIF) Contact Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Contact Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center (IITJ-TISC) Contact Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Contact Angle Meter Department : Chemistry Contact Angle Meter Department : Chemistry Contacts Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) Control and Computing Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Control Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Convocation Department : Office of Academics Affairs Coordination Committee Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Corporate Relations Department : Chemical Engineering Courses Department : Chemical Engineering Courses Department : Physics Courses Department : Materials Engineering Courses Department : Chemistry Courses Department : Mathematics Courses Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Courses Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Courses Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Courses Department : Mechanical Engineering Courses (Social Connect & Responsibility) Department : Office of Students CSR Department : Support IIT Jodhpur Current Activities Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Current Activities Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) Current Activities Department : IMPRINT India Current Activities Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Curriculum Department : Chemical Engineering Curriculum Department : Physics Curriculum Department : Materials Engineering Curriculum Department : Chemistry Curriculum Department : Mathematics Curriculum Department : Electrical Engineering Curriculum Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Curriculum Department : Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Department : Office of Academics Affairs Curriculum Department : PhD Program Curriculum and Electives Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Department : Office of Academics Affairs Cyber Awareness Department : Cyber Security Cyber Incident Reporting Department : Cyber Security Cyber Physical System Department : Electrical Engineering Cyber Physical System Modelling Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Cyber Security Advisory Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Cyber Threat Department : Cyber Security Cybersecurity Advisories Department : Cyber Security D Data Mining for Business Processes Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) DCI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Deans & Associate Deans Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Deep Learning and Computer Vision Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Department Data Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Deposition Tool Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Deposition Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Deputy Director Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Design and Development of NavIC Receiver Department : Electrical Engineering Design and Development of Substrate Integrated Waveguide (SIW) and Empty SIW (ESIW) Based RF-Microwave Components Department : Electrical Engineering Development of Advanced Greywater Treatment Units for Rural Sustainability Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Digital Humanities Digital Language Laboratory Department : School of Liberal Arts Director Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Directory Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Discontinued Program Department : Office of Academics Affairs Dissertations Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Distinguished Lectures Department : Lecture Series Doctoral Program Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Doctoral Program Department : Quantum Information and Computation Doctoral Program Department : School of Liberal Arts Doctoral Program Department : Chemical Engineering Doctoral Program Department : Physics Doctoral Program Department : Chemistry Doctoral Program Department : Mathematics Doctoral Program Department : Electrical Engineering Doctoral Programs Department : Materials Engineering Doctoral Programs Department : Computer Science & Engineering Doctorial Program Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Doctorial Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Doctors Schedule Department : Health Center Documents Required Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) Donate Department : Office of Corporate Relations Donate Department : Office of Resources and Alumni (DORA) Download Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) Download Forms Department : Office of Academics Affairs Downloads Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Dual Degree Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Dynamics Of Machine Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering E E-Learning Studio Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Editorial Board Department : Techscape EdTech Lab Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) EdTech Talk Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Education Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Education Policy Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Eduroam & Guest Access Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Electrical Characterization Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electronic Circuit Simulation and VLSI Systems Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Electronics Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Eligibility Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Eligibility Department : Bachelor of Technology Eligibility Department : Master of Science Eligibility Department : Master of Technology Eligibility Department : Doctor of Philosophy Eligibility Department : PhD Program Eligibility Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Email, LDAP & Internet IDs Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Empanelled Hospitals Department : Health Center Energy and Environmental Catalysis Research Laboratory Department : Chemistry Energy Conversion and Systems Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Energy Conversion Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Energy Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer (ED-XRF) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Engineering Innovation Department : Electrical Engineering Engineering Science Department : Office of Academics Affairs Environmental Biotechnology Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Environmental Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering eOffice Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) ERP & Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Establishment (E-I) facilitates Department : Office of Faculty Affairs/ Establishment (E-I) Establishment (E-II) facilitates Department : Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty) Events Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Events Department : Office of Research & Development Events Department : School of Design Events Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Events Department : Inclusivity Cell Events Department : Materials Engineering Events Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Events and Activities Department : Materials Engineering Events and Activities Department : Electrical Engineering Events, News and Achievements Department : School of Liberal Arts Executive Alumni Network & Lifelong Learning Department : Office of Executive Education Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) - July 2025 Session Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for Working Professionals Department : Executive Programs Executive Programs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Experimental Investigation and Performance Evaluation of HARQ Technique for Free-Space Optical Communication Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Experimental Plot Type C , IIT Jodhpur Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development External Booking Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Extra-Mural Lectures Department : Lecture Series F Facilities Department : Office of Students Facilities & Labs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Facilities & Resources Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center (IITJ-TISC) Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Faculty Department : Computer Science & Engineering Faculty Department : Integrated Teacher Education Programme Faculty Department : Office of Executive Education Faculty Achievements Department : Computer Science & Engineering Faculty Advisor(s) Department : Office of Academics Affairs Faculty Development Program on Pedagogy and Technology-enabled Learning Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Faculty Development Program- UGC HRDC-MGNRCE Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Faculty List by Reseach Area Department : Chemistry Faculty Members Department : Chemical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Faculty Members Department : Electrical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Chemistry Faculty Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Faculty Members Department : Mathematics Faculty Members Department : Physics Faculty Members Department : Materials Engineering Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Faculty Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Faculty Visit Department : Office of International Relations FAQ Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship FAQ Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship FAQs Department : PhD Program FAQs Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) FAQs Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship FAQs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science FAQs Department : Post-Doctoral Fellows (PDF) FAQs Department : Master of Science FAQs Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree FAQs Department : Master of Technology FAQs Department : Doctor of Philosophy FAQs Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree FAQs Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 FAQs: Applicants Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Fee Department : Bachelor of Technology Fee Department : Master of Science Fee Department : Master of Technology Fee Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Fee Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Fee Department : Doctor of Philosophy Fee Structure Department : Office of Academics Affairs Fee Structure & Student Intake Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Feedback Department : Office of Logistics & Facilities (LF) Final Placement Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Financial Aid & Tution Fees Department : PhD Program First Year Class Time-Table Department : Office of Academics Affairs Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Department : Mechanical Engineering Fluorescence Department : Chemistry Fluorescence Spectrometer (Temperature Dependent) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Fluorescence Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry For International Students Department : Office of International Relations Forms Department : Office of Research & Development Forms Department : Office of International Relations Forms Department : Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) Friends of IIT Jodhpur Department : Support IIT Jodhpur FTIR Department : Chemistry FTIR Department : Chemistry FTIR Spectrometer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) FTP Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Functions of Internal Audit Department : Office of Internal Audit Fundamentals of Applied Vehicle Dynamics and Chassis Systems Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Funding Opportunities Department : Office of Research & Development Futuristic Omni Mobility Drones (OMD) Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) G Gallery Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Gallery Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Game-based Learning for Engineering Education Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Gas-Chromatograph Department : Chemistry Gas-Chromatograph Department : Chemistry General Instructions to Applicants Department : Faculty Positions Geological Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering GIT Server Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Governing Council Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Government Sanskrit School Borunda, Pipar, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Aathuni Dhani, Osian, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Aathuno ki Dhani, Tapu Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Ambedkar Nagar, Kaliberi Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Baba ka devra, Balarwa, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Bhakandaa Naada Borunda Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Bhuree Beri, Kaliberi Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Ghorawat, Borunda Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Gurso ka Gaon, Newra, Osian, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Hanuman Bhakri, Balarwa Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Kumta Kshetra Chain Singh Nagar Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Navalgarh, Jhunjhunu Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Naya Bera, Tiwari Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Raiko ki dhani Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Sindhlon ki dhani Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Grievance Redressal Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Groundwater Recharge for Arid and Semi-Arid Regions Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Guest Visit Department : Office of International Relations Guidelines Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy H Happening Now Department : Office of Corporate Relations Health Center Heat Transfer Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Helicopter Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Help Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Department : Physics High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) High Resolution Mass Spectrometer Department : Chemistry High Resolution Mass Spectrometer (HRMS) Department : Chemistry High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope (HR-TEM) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) High-Performance Workstation System Department : Chemistry Highlights Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Highlights Department : School of Liberal Arts Highlights Archives Department : School of Liberal Arts History Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Home Department : Office of International Relations Hostels & Facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology House Allotment Rules Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur House Allotment Rules for Employee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur How to apply Department : PhD Program How to Apply Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship How to Apply Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) How To Make A Complaint Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy How To Reach IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Hybrid Classrooms@IITJ Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) I IIRC Committee Department : Office of International Relations IIT Jodhpur Industry Connect 2022 Department : Computer Science & Engineering IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint MedTech. Centre Advanced Molecular and Digital Technologies in Precision Oncology. Department : Executive Programs IITJ – Location & Campuses Department : Bachelor of Technology IITJ Sustainability Assessment Tool Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development IITJ-JJM Water Centre Showcases Innovations Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ IITJxPATI ARTIST IN RESIDENCY Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Image Enabled Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter(FACS) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Image Processing and Computer Vision Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Imaging/Microscopy Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Immersive Education Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Important Contacts Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Important Dates Department : Bachelor of Technology Important Dates Department : Master of Science Important Dates Department : Master of Technology Important Dates Department : Doctor of Philosophy Important Information Department : Winter School Important Links Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Inbound Students Department : Office of International Relations Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometer (ICP-MS) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Industrial Engineering lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Industry Collaboration & Strategic Partnerships Department : Office of Executive Education Industry Connect Department : School of Liberal Arts Industry Interaction Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Industry Interaction Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Industry Users Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Information Department : Office of Research & Development Information Department : Office of International Relations Information for Authors Department : Techscape Information for PWD Students Department : Inclusivity Cell Information regarding accommodation for candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Ink Jet Printer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Institute Lectures Department : Lecture Series Institute Logo Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Institute Reports Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Instruments Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Integrated Teaching Education Program (ITEP) Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Intelligent Communication and Networking Department : Electrical Engineering Intelligent Communication Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Intelligent VLSI Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Internal Booking Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility International Dual Degree Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship International Faculty Department : Office of International Relations International Lecture Department : Office of International Relations Internet of Things (IoT) Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Internet/Wi-Fi Access Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Internship Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) Internship Programs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Internships & Placements Department : Bachelor of Technology Introduction to IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Introduction to Statutory Bodies Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IPR Department : Office of Research & Development Isolation facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology IT Jodhpur & Surroundings Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur J Joint Consultative Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Journal Publications Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering K Khel Khel Mein Vigyan Multilingual STEM Comics for Children Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) L Laboratories Department : Chemical Engineering Laboratories Department : Electrical Engineering Laboratories Department : Mechanical Engineering Laboratories Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Laboratories Department : Mathematics Laboratories Department : Physics Laboratories Department : Materials Engineering Latest Events Department : Mathematics Latest News Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Latest News Department : Digital Humanities Latest News Department : Space Technology Latest News Department : Quantum Information and Computation Latest News Department : Office of International Relations Latest News Department : Physics Latest News Department : Mathematics Latest Security Alerts Department : Cyber Security Legal Cell Licenses Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Life @ IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Lightwave Technology Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering List of Candidates in Waiting List Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs List of Holidays Department : Office of Academics Affairs List of Provisionally Selected Candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs List of Shortlisted Candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Lithography Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Live Projects Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship M M. Tech. - Ph.D. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Des. in Smart Product Design Department : School of Design M.S. by Research Program Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development M.S. by Research Program Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion M.Sc - M.Tech. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Sc. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. – M.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. (Digital humanities) Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. (Mathematics)-M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences) Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. Computational Social Science AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs M.Sc. Digital Humanities Department : Digital Humanities M.Sc. Digital Humanities AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs M.Sc. in Chemistry Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. in Mathematics Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. in Physics Department : Materials Engineering M.Sc. in Physics Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech - Ph.D Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. Department : Quantum Information and Computation M.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. – Ph.D. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. (Data and Computational Science) Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing and Design Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Cyber Physical Systems Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Energy Infrastructure Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. in Environmental Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Department : Materials Engineering M.Tech. in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Sensors and Internet of Things Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Thermofluids Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program in Communication Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech.in Advanced Manufacturing and Design Department : Office of Academics Affairs Magnetometer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Management Development Programs Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Manual Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Manual Department : Office of Stores & Purchase Masters Department : Medical Technologies Masters of Design (MDes) 2025 Department : School of Design Material Characterization Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility MATLAB Workshop on Signal Processing and ML Applications Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) MBA Department : Office of Academics Affairs MDes Department : Office of Academics Affairs MDes in Smart Product Design 2025-2027 Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design 2023-2025 Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design 2024-2026 Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design 2025-2027 Department : School of Design MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures Department : Lecture Series Mechatronics Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Medical Technologies Master Degree, Master-PhD Dual Degree, PhD Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Meeting MOMs Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Message From The Head Department : School of Liberal Arts Message From The Head Of The Department Department : Mathematics Message from the Regional Coordinator (UBA RCI, IIT Jodhpur) Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Metrology lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Microelectronics and VLSI Department : Electrical Engineering Microelectronics Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Microgrid and Real-time Simulator Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Minor Programs Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Minutes of the Meetings of the Board of Governors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Minutes of the Meetings of the Senate Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Miscellaneous Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Mission & Vision Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Mission & Vision Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Mission Neer Uday Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Molecular Motors & Cell Motility Lab Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Monthly Remuneration Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Moodle Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) MoUs Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering MS by Program Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science MSc Students Department : School of Liberal Arts MTech Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Multimodal Interaction Laboratory (MIL) Department : Electrical Engineering N Nano and Flexible Electronics Department : Electrical Engineering Natural Language Processing Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Net Zero Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Network & Cognitive Neuroscience Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Network & Cybersecurity Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Neuro Robotics Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Neuroscience & Neuro Engineering Laboratory Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering News Department : Digital Humanities News Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development News Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) News Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) News & Announcements Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) News & Events Department : Computer Science & Engineering News & Events Department : Centre for Digital Health News & Events Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility News & Newsletter Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering News & Newsletter Department : Mechanical Engineering News & Newsletter Department : Materials Engineering News & Newsletter Department : Electrical Engineering News & Newsletter Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems News & Newsletter Department : Space Technology News & Newsletter Department : Center for AIoT and Applications News & Newsletter Department : Quantum Information and Computation News & Newsletter Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) News & Newsletter Archive Department : Center for AIoT and Applications News & Updates Department : Office of Executive Education News and Events Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion News and Newsletter Department : Chemical Engineering News and Newsletter Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering News and Newsletter Department : Chemistry News Archive Department : Quantum Information and Computation News Group Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) News/Event Department : Medical Technologies Newsletter Department : School of Liberal Arts Newsletter Department : Institute Repository Newsletter Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Newsletter Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ NIRF Department : Institute Repository NIRF Reports Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Non-Teaching Staff Recruitment Department : Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty) Notification विभाग : Office of Registrar Notification विभाग : Office of Registrar Notification Department : Office of Research & Development NPTEL Session Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Nuclear Magnetic Resonance(NMR) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) O Objective Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Office of Administration Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Corporate Relations Office of Director Office of Faculty Affairs/ Establishment (E-I) Office of Estate Office of Executive Education Office of Infrastructure Engineering Office of Internal Audit Office of International Relations Office of Publications Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty) Office of Registrar Office of Research & Development Office of Stores & Purchase Office of Students Office of Training and Placement Office Orders विभाग : Office of Registrar Officers Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Old Regulations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Ongoing Projects Department : Chemical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Ongoing Projects Department : Electrical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Mechanical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Chemistry Ongoing Projects Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Mathematics Ongoing Projects Department : Physics Ongoing Projects Department : Materials Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Ongoing Projects Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Open Source Department : Centre for Digital Health Operation Profiles Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Operational Model Department : Office of Executive Education Optical Diagnostics and Imaging Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Optical Rotation Measurement System Department : Chemistry Optical Rotation Measurement System Department : Chemistry Optics and Photonics Department : Physics Orders Organic and Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory Department : Chemistry Orientation Department : Office of Students Other Archive Department : Computer Science & Engineering Our Alumni Department : Mathematics Our Programs Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center (IITJ-TISC) Outbound Students Department : Office of International Relations Outreach Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Outreach Activity Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Outstanding Student Projects Department : Computer Science & Engineering OwnCloud Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) P Packaging Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Participation and presentation in International WASH Conference Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Partner Department : Winter School Partnership Department : Centre for Digital Health Past Programmes Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling (VTU) Past Workshops Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Patents Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PDF Positions Department : Chemistry PDF Positions Department : Post-Doctoral Fellows (PDF) People People Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) People Department : Ishaan Vikaas Program People Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) People Department : IMPRINT India People Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program People Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat People Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) People Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy PG Diploma and M.Tech* in Data Engineering Department : Executive Programs PG Diploma and MTech* in Artificial Intelligence Department : Executive Programs PG Orientation Department : Office of Students Ph.D Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Ph.D. Department : Office of Academics Affairs Ph.D. Admission विभाग : Chemistry Ph.D. Thesis Defense Department : Office of Academics Affairs PhD Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PhD Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science PhD Department : Medical Technologies PhD Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship PhD Admission Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development PhD Digital Humanities Department : Digital Humanities PhD in Design Department : School of Design PhD Program Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) PhD Program Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship PhD Program in Design Department : School of Design PhD Programs Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems PhD Programs Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PhD Scholars Department : School of Liberal Arts PhD Scholars Department : School of Design PhD Students Department : Computer Science & Engineering PhD Students Department : Mathematics PhD Students Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Phone Book Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Photo Gallery Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE) Physical Property Measurement System (PPMS) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Physics Pedagogy Lab Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) PI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) PI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) PI Note Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Placement Department : School of Design Placement Brochure Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Placement Process Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Placements Department : Computer Science & Engineering Portfolio Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center (IITJ-TISC) Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Chemical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Electrical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Mechanical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Chemistry Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Mathematics Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Physics Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Materials Engineering Post Graduate Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Post Graduate Program Department : Chemistry Postdoc Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Postgraduate program Department : Electrical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Chemical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Physics Postgraduate Program Department : Materials Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Postgraduate Program - Computational Social Science (MSc) Department : School of Liberal Arts Postgraduate Programs Department : Computer Science & Engineering Postgraduate Programs Department : Mathematics Power Electronics & Drives Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Power Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Previous Talks Department : Computer Science & Engineering Procedure for RTI Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Process Department : Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) Professional Development Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Professor In Charge Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Program Curriculum Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Program Curriculum Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Program Delivery & Infrastructure Department : Office of Executive Education Program Fee Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Program Pathways Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Program Portfolio Department : Office of Executive Education Program Structure Department : Physics Program Structure Department : Chemical Engineering Program Structure Department : Materials Engineering Program Structure Department : Chemistry Program Structure Department : Mathematics Program Structure Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Program Structure Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Program Structure Department : Mechanical Engineering Program Structure Department : Office of Academics Affairs Programs Department : Space Technology Programs Department : Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) Programs for Working Professionals Department : Computer Science & Engineering Project Department : Digital Humanities Project Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Project Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Project Staff Appointment Department : Chemistry Project Staff Appointment Department : Chemical Engineering Project Staff Appointment Department : Office of Research & Development Project Staff Members Department : Chemical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Project Staff Members Department : Electrical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Chemistry Project Staff Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Mathematics Project Staff Members Department : Physics Project Staff Members Department : Materials Engineering Projects Department : Computer Science & Engineering Projects Department : Space Technology Projects Department : Quantum Information and Computation Projects Department : School of Liberal Arts Projects Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Projects Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Projects / Research Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Psychology Lab Department : School of Liberal Arts Publication Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Publication Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Publications Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Publications Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Publications Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Publications Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Q Quantum Physics Department : Physics R Raman Spectrometer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Recent patent from on Method of preparing negatively charged clay based ceramic membrane, has officially been granted Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Recruitment Recruitments Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Department : Mechanical Engineering Registrar Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Registration Department : Winter School Registration Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Registration Department : Office of Executive Education Registration & Academic Session Department : Bachelor of Technology Regulations Department : Physics Regulations Department : Chemical Engineering Regulations Department : Materials Engineering Regulations Department : Chemistry Regulations Department : Mathematics Regulations Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Regulations Department : Mechanical Engineering Reporting Schedule for new Students Batch 2023-24 Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Research Department : Space Technology Research Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Research Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Research & Infrastructure Department : Chemical Engineering Research & Innovation Department : Centre for Digital Health Research Archive Department : Computer Science & Engineering Research Area Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Research Area Department : Quantum Information and Computation Research Area & Labs Department : Computer Science & Engineering Research Areas Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Research Areas Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Research Groups Department : Physics Research Highlights Department : Chemical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Research Highlights Department : Chemistry Research Highlights Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Research Highlights Department : Physics Research Highlights Department : Mathematics Research Highlights Department : Mechanical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Materials Engineering Research Highlights Department : Computer Science & Engineering Research Highlights Department : Electrical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Centre for Digital Health Research Highlights Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Research Laboratories Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Research Laboratories Department : Chemistry Research Overview Department : Electrical Engineering Research Project Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Research Projects Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Researchers Department : Computer Science & Engineering Resources Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) Resources Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Resources Department : IMPRINT India Resources Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur RF, Microwaves and Photonics Department : Electrical Engineering Rheometer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Robot Modeling and Control, and Applications to Aerial Robots Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Robotics and Intelligent Machines Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Robotics Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering RTI RTI Cell Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur RTI Welcome Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur S SandStone Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship SandStone 2.0 Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Scale of Pay Department : Faculty Positions Scanning Electron Microscope With Edax Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Schedule Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Schedule for Written Test/Interview Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Scholars-in-Residence Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Scholarships Department : Office of Academics Affairs Scholarships Department : Bachelor of Technology Scholarships Department : Master of Technology Scholarships Department : Doctor of Philosophy Scholarships Department : Office of Students Scholarships and Placements Department : Office of Students Security Department : Office of Security & Transports Security Tools Department : Cyber Security SEG Proposals Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Selected Villages Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) Selection Process Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Seminar Department : Chemistry Seminar & Events Department : Space Technology Seminar & Events Department : Centre for Digital Health Seminar And Meetings Department : Mathematics Seminar And Meetings Department : Mechanical Engineering Seminar And Meetings Department : Computer Science & Engineering Seminar And Meetings Department : Robotics & Mobility Systems Seminar And Meetings Department : Digital Humanities Seminar And Meetings Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Seminar And Meetings Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Seminars and Meetings Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Seminars and Meetings Department : Chemistry Seminars and Meetings Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Seminars and Meetings Department : Physics Seminars and Meetings Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Seminars and Meetings Department : Chemical Engineering Sensors and Internet of Things Department : Electrical Engineering Services Department : Health Center Services, Training and Technology Development Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Sewage Manhole Gas Analysis for Safety in Jodhpur Old City Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ SFURTI Cluster- IIT Jodhpur is a Technical Agency KVIC Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Shortlisting Announcement Department : Mathematics Shortlisting Criteria and Syllabus for Written Test/Interview Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Signal Processing Department : Electrical Engineering Signal Processing Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Simultaneous Thermal Analyzer (STA) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Smart Cities Infrastructure and Environment Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Smart Grid Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Social Engineering Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Social Outreach Department : School of Liberal Arts Social Outreach Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Socio-digital Reality Department : Electrical Engineering Speakers Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Specialisation Department : PhD Program Specialization/Minor/Dual Degree Department : Office of Academics Affairs Spectroscopy Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Spectroscopy & Biophysics Laboratory Department : Chemistry Sponsors & Collaborators Department : Computer Science & Engineering Sponsors & Institutional Partners Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Spotlight Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Spotlight Archives Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Sputter Coater for Metal Coating (For SEM) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) STEM Teacher Training for JNVs 2025 Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) STI HUB Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development STI HUB IIT Jodhpur-Photos Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Strategy Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Strength Areas Department : Office of Corporate Relations Structural Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Student Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Student Achievements Department : Computer Science & Engineering Student Achievements Archive Department : School of Liberal Arts Student Life @ IIT Jodhpur Department : Office of Students Student Life at IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Student Volunteer Department : Office of International Relations Students Department : Computer Science & Engineering Students Department : Chemical Engineering Students Department : Digital Humanities Students Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Students Department : PhD Program Students Presentation Department : Computer Science & Engineering Students Presentation Department : Computer Science & Engineering Substate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) based Circuits and Systems for Millimeter Wave Application Department : Electrical Engineering Suggestions Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Summer Internship Department : School of Management & Entrepreneurship Sustainability Plan And Policy Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Sustainability Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Synthesis and Characterization of Materials for Energy Storage Devices Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Systems & Software Department : Computer Science & Engineering T TA-Ship Department : Office of Students Talks/lectures archive Department : Computer Science & Engineering Teaching Laboratories Department : Chemistry Teaching– Learning Resources for Instructors Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Teams Department : Computer Science & Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Chemical Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Technical Staff Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Chemistry Technical Staff Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Mathematics Technical Staff Members Department : Physics Technical Visit of High Level Delegation Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Technology Department : Office of Research & Development Telephone Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) TEM Sample Preparation Units Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Tenders Tenders Announcement विभाग : Office of Stores & Purchase Tenders Details Department : Office of Stores & Purchase Testimonials Department : Office of Executive Education The Design Pod Department : School of Design The Digital Infrastructure & Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) The Prime Minister's Research Fellows (PMRF) Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Themes Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Theoretical AI Department : School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Theoretical Computer Science Department : Computer Science & Engineering Thermal Analyzer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Time Resolved Photoluminescence(TRPL) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Topological Solutions And Their Applications Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Training/ Workshop Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) Fab Facility Transcripts Department : Office of Academics Affairs Transition Metal and Organometalics Research Laboratory Department : Chemistry Transport Department : Office of Security & Transports Transportation Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering U UG Orientation Department : Office of Students UG Registration Guidelines Department : Office of Academics Affairs Under Graduate Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Undergraduate Courses Department : School of Liberal Arts Undergraduate Program Department : Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Materials Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Physics Undergraduate Program Department : Electrical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Bioscience & Bioengineering Undergraduate Programs Department : Computer Science & Engineering Undergraduate Programs Department : Mathematics Upcoming Programmes Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling (VTU) Upcoming Talks Department : Computer Science & Engineering Updates and notifications Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) UV-Visible Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry UV-Visible Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry V Vanguard Lectures Department : Lecture Series Vanguard Lectures Department : Institute Repository Verification Department : Office of Students Vibration Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering View Lectures Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) Vigilance Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Virasat Department : Office of Students Vision Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Vision and AR & VR Department : Computer Science & Engineering Vision and Mission Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Vision and Mission Department : School of Liberal Arts Visit for IITJ Hostels Water Quality Monitoring Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Central Ground Water Board Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Chief Municipal Officers of Madhya Pradesh Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Dr. Arindam Malakar, Water Research Scientist Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Groundwater Department Rajasthan Officials Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of NIH Scientists Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Prof. Venkappayya R Desai Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Prof. Venkappayya R Desai, Director IIT Dharwad Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Shri. Nalin Singhal Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Basani, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Bawarla, Pratap Nagar, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Doliya and Jatiyawas Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Manpura, Jhalamand Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visiting Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Visual Computing Department : Electrical Engineering VLSI Systems Department : Electrical Engineering VPN Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) W Wardens Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Water Resource Engineering Laboratory Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Web Hosting Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Web Information Manager (WIM) Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Web Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Webinars Department : Computer Science & Engineering Welcome to Faculty Positions Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Welcome to Faculty Positions Department : Chemistry What Can Be Termed As Sexual Harassment Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Wireless and Microwave Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Work With Us Department : Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) Workshop on NEP Implementation Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Workshop on Next-Generation Education Technology Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) Workshop on Pedagogy and Assessment Department : Center for Education Technology (CET) X X-Ray Difractometer Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) XRD(Powder) Department : Central Research Facility (CRF) Y Z Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

People Chairman Dean Associate Dean Professor In-Charge(s) Faculty In-Charge Staff Member(s) Outsourced Staff Members Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 25 Mar 2026 - 12:14 PM

B.Tech. UG Curricula S.No. Program Name Action 1 B.Tech. (AI and Data Science) View 2 B.Tech. (Bioengineering) View 3 B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) View 4 B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering) View 5 B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) View 6 B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) View 7 B.Tech. (Materials Engineering) View 8 B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

B.S. New BS Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 BS (Physics) with Specialization View 2 BS (Chemistry) with Specialization View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

M.Sc. Master of Science Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 M.Sc. (Chemistry) View 2 M.Sc. (Mathematics) View 3 M.Sc. (Physics) View 4 M.Sc. (Digital humanities) View 5 M.Sc. (Computational social Sciences) View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

M.Tech. Master of Technology Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 M.Tech. (Advance Manufacturing and Design) View 2 M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence) View 3 M.Tech. (Bioscience and Bioengineering) View 4 M.Tech. (Chemical engineering) View 5 M.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) View 6 M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) View 7 M.Tech. (Data and Computational Science) View 8 M.Tech. (Infrastructure Engineering and Specialization in Energy) View 9 M.Tech. (Infrastructure Engineering and Specialization in Environmental Engineering) View 10 M.Tech. (Materials Engineering) View 11 M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Thing) View 12 M.Tech. (Thermofluids Engineering) View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

M.Sc. – M.Tech. Master of Science – Master of Technology Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 Mathematics – Data and Computational Science View 2 Physics – Material Engineering View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

MDes Masters of Design Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 Masters of Design (MDes) View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Ph.D. Important Dates for Rolling advertisement for Admission to Interdisciplinary and Ph.D. Programmes Milestones Date Last date of filling online application form Throughout the year Cut-off date for an application to be considered for the admission process 20 April (for Semester I), 20 October (for Semester II) Announcement of shortlisted applicants for the admission process 25 April (for Semester I), 25 October (for Semester II) Date of written test and/or Interview To be announced Apply Online Applicants should use the online application form , which will be activated during the time of admissions. Applicants shortlisted for the written test and/or interview will be required to bring the final submitted application form duly signed along with a copy of valid GATE scorecard at the time of written examination and/or interview. The processing fee is Rs. 300 for General and OBC applicants, and Rs. 150 for SC, ST, and PD applicants online while submitting the application form. In case you have any questions, please contact: Assistant Registrar Office of Academics Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur N.H. 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 eMail: office_academics@iitj.ac.in Phone: 0291 280 1132 Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

MBA S.No. Program Name Action 1 MBA & MBA-Technology View 2 MBA in FinTech & Cyber Security View 3 International Dual Degree View 4 Dual Degree View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Collaborations S.No. Collaboration Area Action 1 Collaborations with Academia View 2 Collaborations with Industry View Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Academic Calendar Academic Calendar BS/BSc – Academic Year 2025–2026 ( Download file) Academic Calendar for Academic Year 2025–26 ( Download file) Academic Calendar BS / BSC ( Download file) Academic Calendar PG-Certificate/PG Diploma/MBA-Tech (Trimester Model)(AY 2025-26) ( Download file) Academic Calendar PG-Certificate in Machine Learning and Artificial (AY 2024-25) ( Download file) Academic Calendar: Academic Year Summer Term 2024-25 ( Download file) Academic Calendar: Academic Year 2024-25 ( Download file) Academic Calendar PG-Certificate/PG Diploma/MBA-Tech (Trimester Model) ( Download file) Academic Calendar PG Certification in ML & AI AY 2024 -25 ( Download file) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

List of Academic Programs Programs offered by IITJ Bachelor of Technology S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Computer Science & Engineering Started in 2008 2 Electrical Engineering Started in 2008 3 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2008 4 Bioengineering Started in 2017 5 Materials Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 6 Chemical Engineering 7 Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 8 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Bachelor of Science S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry with Specialization Started from 2022-23 2 Physics with Specialization BSc-BEd Integrated Teacher Education Program (ITEP) S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 with BSc Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics Starting in 2024-25 Master of Science S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry Started in 2015 2 Mathematics Started in 2015 3 Physics Started in 2015 4 Digital Humanities Started from AY 2020-21 5 Computational Social Science Started from AY 2022-23 Master of Technology S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Bioscience and Bioengineering Started in 2017 2 Computer Science and Engineering Started in 2018 3 Artificial Intelligence Started in 2019 4 Cyber Physical System Started in 2019 5 Communication Systems 6 Advanced Manufacturing and Design Started in 2019 7 Data and Computational Sciences Started in 2019 8 Thermofluids Engineering Started in 2019 Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies 9 Materials Engineering Name Metallurgical and Materials Engineering changed to Materials Engineering July 2020 (Started in 2018) 10 Chemical Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 11 Environmental Engineering 12 Energy Infrastructure 13 Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR) 14 Robotics 15 Microelectronics and VLSI Started in July 2023 16 Bridge Engineering Executive M.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Artificial Intelligence Started from year January 2020 2 Data and Computational Sciences Started from year October 2021 3 Intelligent VLSI Systems Started from year AY 2022-23 4 Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR) 5 Robotics and Mobility Systems Masters of Design S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 MDes Starting in 2025 Doctor of Philosophy S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry Started in 2014 2 Mathematics Started in 2014 3 Physics Started in 2014 4 Biosciences and Bioengineering Started in 2014 5 Computer Science & Engineering Started in 2014 6 Electrical Engineering Started in 2014 7 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2014 8 Materials Engineering Started in 2018 9 Chemical Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 10 Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 11 Management and Entrepreneurship 12 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Started in 2021 13 School of Design 14 School of Liberal Arts 15 Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development 16 Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics 17 Center for Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications 18 Center for Education Technology 19 Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy 20 Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Interdisciplinary Ph.D. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Digital Humanities Started in 2019 2 Smart Health Care Started in 2019 3 Space Science and Technology Started in 2019 4 Robotics and Mobility Systems Started in 2019 5 Quantum Information and Computation Started in 2019 School of Management and Entrepreneurship S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 MBA Started from AY 2020-21 Masters and Ph.D. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Medical Technologies Started from AY 2020-21 Masters Programs S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Masters in Medical Technologies Started from AY 2020-21 Postgraduate Diploma S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Data Engineering and Cloud Computing Started from AY 2022-23 Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Discontinued Program Following Programmes have been discontinued B.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Systems Sciences (SS) Started in 2011 discontinued in July 2015 2 Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) Started in 2013 discontinued in July 2015 M.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Center of ICT Started in 2011 discontinued in July 2015 2 Center of SS 3 Center of Energy 4 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2015 dicontinued in July 2019 5 Electrical Engineering Ph.D. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Center of Energy Started in 2010 dicontinued in July 2015 2 Center of SS Started in 2011 dicontinued in July 2015 3 Center of ICT Started in 2012 dicontinued in July 2015 4 BISS Started in 2013 dicontinued in July 2015 M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Data and Computational Sciences Started in 2019 , discontinued in Feb 2026 2 M.Sc. in Physics and M.Tech. in Materials Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 , discontinued in Feb 2026 3 Chemistry and Materials Engineering Discontinued in Feb 2026 M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Sensors and Internet of Things Started in 2019 2 Cyber Physical System Started in 2019 3 Communication and Signal Processing Started in 2019 4 Thermofluids Engineering Started in 2019 5 Advanced Manufacturing Started in 2019 6 Mechanical Design Started in 2019 7 Materials Engineering Name Metallurgical and Materials Engineering changed to Materials Engineering July 2020 (Started in 2018) 8 Computer Science and Engineering Started in 2019 9 Artificial Intelligence Started in 2019 10 Data and Computational Sciences Started in 2019 11 Bioscience and Bioengineering Started in 2019 12 Chemical Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 13 Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering 14 Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy 15 Intelligent Communication System Started from AY 2022-23 16 Intelligent VLSI Systems Started in July 2023 Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Contact Office of Academics, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District UG Matter: office_academics_ug@iitj.ac. in PG Matter: office_academics_pg@iitj.ac. in Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

UG Registration Guidelines Guidelines for Registration for UG Students Bouquet I Bouquet II Bouquet III Bouquet IV Short stories from around the world Introduction to sociology Microeconomics 1 (AIDE-CMCE) Introduction to Philosophy Regional literature in translation Digital Society Microeconomics 2 (AIDE-CMCE) Fundamentals of logic Creative writing Urban Sociology Health Economics Critical Thinking Postcolonial Fiction Indian Society: A sociological Introduction Industrial Organization Cognitive Semantics Short Fiction from India Youth studies Health and Development Philosophical Problems Science Fiction Law and Society Indian Economic Development and Policy Introduction to Indian Philosophy Introduction to Theatre Sociology of Work and Industry Political and Institutional Economics of Development Theories of justice Short Fictions from South Asian Diaspora Development and Environment Foundations and Finance Gandhian Thought Classic Detective Fiction Social Stratification Individual and Strategic Decision Making (AIDE-CMCE) Role of Technology in Development Social and Economics Networks (AIDE-CMCE Disasters, Risk Reduction, and Management Behavioral Economics and Decision Theory(AIDE-CMCE) Political and Cultural Ecology Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

First Year Class Time-Table Time-Table Slot System AY 2023-24 Semester-I (B.Tech. 1st Year) Download UG First Year Time Table First Year Section A First Year Section A Group A1 Group A2 Group A3 Group A4 Group A5 Group A6 First Year Section B Group B1 Group B2 Group B3 Group B4 Group B5 Group B6 Group B7 Section and Group allocation for UG First Year Instructors and Classrooms Faculty Advisors First Year Section A [Back to index] Courses for Section A: BBL1020: Introduction to Bioengineering Theory (LHB308) BBP1010: Introduction to Bioengineering Lab ( Bioengineering Dept) EEL1010: Introduction to Electrical Engineering (LHB308) MAL1010: Mathematics I (LHB308) CSL1010: Introduction to Computer Science (LHB308) MEP1010: Engineering Visualization (Computer Centre) OAE1010: Engineering Design – I (PH/MT Department) HSN1010: Communication Skill – I (Computer Centre) OSN1020: Performing Arts I OSN1030: Sport I (Sport Ground / Berm) OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities – I Group A1 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA1 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A1 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 HSN1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 MEP1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) EEL1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 BBP1010 Lab 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020/30 OSN1010 Group A2 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA2 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A2 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 HSN1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 EEL1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) MEP1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 BBP1010 Lab 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A3 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA3 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A3 /td> Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 HSN1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 CSL1010 (Lab) EEL1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) MEP1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 BBP1010 Lab 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A4 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA4 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A4 (Sr. 121 to 160) Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 HSN1010 Lab BBP1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 CSL1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) EEL1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 MEP1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A5 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA5 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A5 (Sr. 161 to 200) Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 EEL1010 (Lab) BBP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 OAE1010 (ED1) CSL1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 MEP1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A6 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupA6 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group A6 (Sr. 201 to 240) Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 9–10 EEL1010 (Lab) BBP1010 Lab 10–11 11–12 HSN1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) CSL1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 2–3 MEP1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 First Year Section B [Back to index] Courses for Section B: CYL1010: Chemistry (LHB 110) MEL1010: Engineering Mechanics (LHB 110) PHL1010: Electromagnetism and Optics (LHB 110) MAL1010: Mathematics I (LHB 110) PHP1010: Physics Lab (Physics Department) CYP1010: Chemistry Lab (Chemistry Department) MEP1010: Engineering Visualization (Computer Centre) OAE1010: Engineering Design – I (PH/MT Department) HSN1010: Communication Skill – I (Computer Centre) OSN1020: Performing Arts I (Sport Ground / Berm) OSN1030: Sport I (Sport Ground / Berm) OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities – I (LHB110) Group B1 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB1 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B1 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 CYL1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 PHP1010 (Lab) HSN1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 OAE1010 (ED1) MEP1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B2 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB2 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B2 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 MEP1010 (Lab) CYL1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 PHP1010 (Lab) HSN1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 OAE1010 (ED1) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B3 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB3 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B3 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 MEP1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 CYL1010 (Lab) PHP1010 (Lab) HSN1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 OAE1010 (ED1) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B4 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB4 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B4 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 MEP1010 (Lab) PHP1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 CYL1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 HSN1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B5 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB5 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B5 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 CYL1010 (Lab) MEP1010 (Lab) PHP1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 HSN1010 (Lab) OAE1010 (ED1) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B6 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB6 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B6 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 CYL1010 (Lab) PHP1010 (Lab) MEP1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 OAE1010 (ED1) HSN1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B7 [Back to index] Table-2023-FGroupB7 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Group B7 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 8–9 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 9–10 PHP1010 (Lab) CYL1010 (Lab) 10–11 11–12 MEP1010 (Lab) 12–1 1–2 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010(T) CYL1010 2–3 OAE1010 (ED1) HSN1010 (Lab) 3–4 4–5 MAL1010 MAL1010 (Tut) 5–6 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Section and Group allocation for UG First Year [Back to index] Table-Section2023 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Instructors and Classrooms [Back to index] Table-Instructors2023 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) SN Course Code Name of Course Credits LTP Course Instructor eMail Slot Class Room/ Lab Section 1 BBL1020 Introduction to Bioengineering Theory [BBL1020] 3.0 3-0-0 Raviraj Vankayala rvankayala@iitj.ac.in F LHB 308 Section A 2 BBP1010 Introduction to Bioengineering Lab [BBP1010] 1.0 0-0-2 Dinesh Ahirwar dineshahirwar@iitj.ac.in M1 Bioengineering Dept 3 EEL1010 Introduction to Electrical Engineering [EEL1010] 4.0 3-0-2 Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Soumava Mukherjee rajlaxmichouhan@iitj.ac.in, soumava@iitj.ac.in K LHB 308 4 CSL1010 Introduction to Computer Science [CSL1010] 4.0 3-0-2 Richa Singh richa@iitj.ac.in G LHB308 5 MAL1010 Mathematics I [MAL1010] 4.0 3-1-0 Kirankumar Hiremath k.r.hiremath@iitj.ac.in N LHB 308 6 MEP1010 Engineering Visualization [MEP1010] 1.0 0-0-2 Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty pchakraborty@iitj.ac.in M3 Computer Centre 7 HSN1010 Communication Skill – I [HSN1010] 1.0 0-0-2 Anupama Mohan amohan@iitj.ac.in M4 Computer Centre 8 OSN1010 Social Connect and Responsibilities – I [OSN1010] 0.5 0-0-1 Ananya Debnath ananya@iitj.ac.in NG-1 9 OSN1020/30 Performing Arts I [OSN1020] / Sport I [OSN1030] 0.5 0-0-1 Ankita Sharma ankitasharma@iitj.ac.in NG-2 Sport Ground / Berm 10 OAE1010 Engineering Design – I 1.0 0-0-2 Sandip Murarka sandipmurarka@iitj.ac.in M8 PH/MT Department 1 CYL1010 Chemistry [CYL1010] 3.0 3-0-0 Rakesh Kumar Sharma rvankayala@iitj.ac.in G LHB 110 Section B 2 MEL1010 Engineering Mechanics [MEL1010] 3.0 2-1-0 Amrita Puri amritapuri@iitj.ac.in F LHB 110 3 PHL1010 Electromagnetism and Optics [PHL1010] 3.0 3-0-0 Durgamadhab Mishra durgamadhab@iitj.ac.in K LHB 110 4 MAL1010 Mathematics I [MAL1010] 4.0 3-1-0 Kirankumar Hiremath k.r.hiremath@iitj.ac.in N LHB 110 5 PHP1010 Physics Lab 1.0 0-0-2 B M Krishna Mariserla bmkrishna@iitj.ac.in M1 Physics Department 6 CYP1010 Chemistry Lab 1.0 0-0-2 Nirmal Kumar Rana nirmalrana@iitj.ac.in M2 Chemistry Department 7 MEP1010 Engineering Visualization [MEP1010] 1.0 0-0-2 Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty pchakraborty@iitj.ac.in M3 Computer Centre 8 HSN1010 Communication Skill – I [HSN1010] 1.0 0-0-2 Anupama Mohan amohan@iitj.ac.in M4 Computer Centre 9 OSN1010 Social Connect and Responsibilities – I [OSN1010] 0.5 0-0-1 Ananya Debnath Ananya Debnath NG-1 LHB 110 10 OSN1020/30 Performing Arts I [OSN1020] / Sport I [OSN1030] 0.5 0-0-1 Ankita Sharma ankitasharma@iitj.ac.in NG-2 Sport Ground / Berm 11 OAE1010 Engineering Design – I 1.0 0-0-2 Sandip Murarka sandipmurarka@iitj.ac.in M8 PH/MT Department Faculty Advisors [Back to index] Table-FAs-2023 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) S.No. Branch Program Faculty Advisor 1 Mechanical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (ME) Dr. Vignesh T. G. 2 Computer Science and Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (CSE) Dr. Kshitiz Gajjar 3 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science B.Tech. 1st Year (AI) 4 Electrical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (EE) Dr. Jai Narayan Tripathi 5 BioEngineering B.Tech. 1st Year (BE) Dr. Meenu Chhabra 6 Metallurgical & Materials Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (MT) Srijan Sen Gupta 7 Chemical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (CH) Dr. Nirmalya Bachhar 8 Civil and Infrastructural engineering B.Tech. 1st Year (CI) Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 9 Chemistry B.S. 1st Year (CY) Samnwita Pal 10 Physics B.S. 1st Year (PH) Dr. Durgamadhab Mishra Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Engineering Science Engineering Science No.‌IITJ/OA/C/2020-21/19/2645‌ Dated 31 July 2021 B.Tech. in Engineering Science B.Tech. in Engineering Science Message from Chairperson (ES Undergratuate Commitee) Institute Background and Vision Program Background Engineering Science Options Student Details Domain Options for B.Tech. (ES) CS+Chem CSE+EE AI+EE Mech +Electrical Civil engineering + AI Material Science + AI Bio +AI Curriculum First and Second Semester Third and Fourth Semester Engineering Science Undergraduate Committee Student Details B.Tech. in Engineering Science [Back to index] Message from Chairperson (ES Undergratuate Commitee) [Back to index] Engineering applications generally require multidisciplinary knowledge, spanning across various disciplines of engineering and sciences. Knowledge in humanities along with engineering and/ or sciences are also finding important applications. B.Tech. in Engineering Sciences (ES) is a unique bachelors degree program of IIT Jodhpur which aim to impart core knowledge in two targeted focus areas in Science and Engineering, to meet demands of emerging industrial and academic requirements. Any student admitted to IIT Jodhpur can opt for B.Tech. in Engineering science post 1st year. Students will be required to complete core courses of ES, in the first two years of study whereas they can outline their own curriculum, in the guidance of faculty advisor, in the form of electives for the remaining two years, from courses across disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. In line with regular B.Tech. programs, students can also use 10 credits out of stipulated electives and 10 additional credits to earn minor/ specialization as an add-on to the B.Tech. degree. The flexibility of curriculum selection, as per students’ capabilities and interest with faculty guidance, aims to impart sufficient knowledge to the students, to be future ready professionals. – Professor Ajay Agarwal (Chairperson) Institute Background and Vision [Back to index] Innovations, Scientific Discoveries, and New Technologies are the essential foundations of the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur. The institute focuses on building solid and in-depth knowledge in the engineering domains and strongly encourages interdisciplinary learning. The courses offered are defined such that it enhances the imagination and creativity of the students to identify and solve new problems in society. Our endeavour is to build an atmosphere for uninhibited ideas.The institute offers 9 B.Tech programs: Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Sciences, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Mechanical Engineering, Bioengineering, Materials Engineering, Chemical Engineering and Civil and Infrastructure Engineering. The institute also empowers students by allowing them to avail specializations, minors, and elective courses. Program Background [Back to index] Engineering Science is a unique branch of engineering designed to cater to the upcoming demand of the industry and research, training the best of students to have a strong foundation in every field along with a specialization in their topic of interest. Our institute is one of the primary institutes offering an Engineering Science program. This programme is a four-year course. The first two years are devoted to topics which we believe all Engineering undergraduates should study. In the third and fourth years, the students have the opportunity to study any two complementary disciplines by drafting their own course structure. This fosters multi-disciplinary thinking and integrated application of engineering, scientific and mathematical principles in young students. The students can specialise/minor in any field as well. The final degree will read: B.Tech in Engineering Science with specialisation/minor Engineering Science Options [Back to index] ‌To‌‌ provide‌‌ flexibility‌‌ in‌‌ curricula,‌‌ options‌‌ have‌‌ been‌‌ created‌‌ to‌‌ pursue‌‌ ‌ 4-year‌ ‌B.Tech.‌ ‌in‌ ‌Engineering‌ ‌Science‌:‌ ‌Any‌ ‌student‌ ‌may‌ ‌opt‌ ‌for‌ ‌B.Tech.‌ ‌in‌ ‌Engineering‌‌ science‌ ‌post‌ ‌1st‌ ‌year‌ ‌to‌ ‌pursue‌ ‌a‌ ‌targeted‌ ‌focus‌ ‌area‌ ‌in‌ ‌Science‌ ‌and‌ ‌Engineering‌ ‌to‌ ‌meet‌‌ demands‌ ‌of‌ ‌emerging‌ ‌industrial‌ ‌and‌ ‌academic‌ ‌requirements.‌ ‌Students‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌required‌ ‌to‌‌ Complete‌‌ core‌‌ course‌‌ requirements‌‌ in‌‌ the‌‌ first‌‌ two‌‌ years‌‌ of‌‌ study‌‌ where as‌‌ they‌‌ can‌‌ outline‌‌ their‌‌ own‌ ‌curriculum‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌form‌ ‌of‌ ‌electives‌ ‌for‌ ‌the‌ ‌remaining‌ ‌two‌ ‌years‌ ‌from‌ ‌courses‌ ‌across‌‌ disciplines‌ ‌of‌ ‌engineering,‌ ‌science,‌ ‌and‌ ‌humanities.‌ ‌The‌ ‌students‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌awarded‌ ‌B.Tech‌ ‌in‌‌ Engineering‌‌ Science.‌‌ Similar‌‌ to‌‌ regular‌‌ B.Tech.‌‌ Programme‌‌ Students‌‌ can‌‌ also‌‌ use‌‌‌ 10‌‌ credits‌‌ out‌‌ Of‌‌ stipulated‌‌ electives‌‌ and‌‌ 10‌‌ additional‌‌ credits‌‌ to‌‌ earn‌‌ minor/specialization‌‌ as‌‌ an‌‌ add-on‌‌ to‌‌ the‌‌ B.Tech‌‌ degree.‌ ‌ 4-year‌ B.Tech.‌ in‌ X+Engineering‌ Science‌‌ : Students‌ ‌can‌ ‌pursue‌ ‌a‌ ‌capability‌ ‌linked‌ ‌B.Tech.‌ ‌in‌ ‌X‌ ‌+‌ ‌Engineering‌ ‌Science‌ ‌to‌ ‌pursue‌ ‌newer‌‌ Structures‌‌ of‌‌ programmes‌‌ in‌‌ addition‌‌ to‌‌ classical‌‌ programmes,‌‌ where‌‌ ‘X’‌‌ represents‌‌ the‌‌ primary‌‌ branch‌‌ in‌‌ which‌‌ a‌‌ student‌‌ has‌‌ taken‌‌ admissions.‌‌ After‌‌ completion‌‌ of‌‌ the‌‌ first‌‌ year,‌‌ the‌‌ student‌‌ having‌ ‌a‌ ‌CGPA‌ ‌of‌ ‌6.5‌‌ or‌‌ more‌‌ may‌‌ opt‌‌ to‌‌ choose‌‌ Capability-linked‌‌ B.Tech.‌‌ in‌‌ X‌‌+‌‌Engineering‌‌ Science.‌ ‌Students‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌required‌ ‌to‌ ‌register‌ ‌for‌ ‌extra‌ ‌credits‌ ‌for‌ ‌the‌ ‌same.‌ ‌The‌ ‌students‌‌ pursuing‌ ‌this‌ ‌programme‌ ‌will‌ ‌take‌ ‌common‌ ‌courses‌ ‌and‌ ‌courses‌ ‌with‌ ‌a‌ ‌concentration‌ ‌in‌‌ Engineering‌‌ Science‌‌ in‌‌ the‌‌ 2nd‌‌ year.‌‌ From‌‌ the‌‌ third‌‌ year‌‌ onwards‌‌ the‌‌ student‌‌ would‌‌ also‌‌ start‌‌ opting‌ ‌for‌ ‌courses‌ ‌related‌ ‌to‌ ‌the‌ ‌primary‌ ‌branch‌ ‌(X)‌ ‌and‌ ‌elective‌ ‌courses‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌‌ area‌‌ of‌‌ both‌‌ primary‌ ‌branch‌ ‌and‌ ‌Engineering‌ ‌Science.‌ ‌At‌ ‌the‌ ‌end‌ ‌of‌ ‌the‌‌ second‌‌ year,‌‌ an‌‌ option‌‌ of‌‌ primary‌‌ branch‌ ‌change‌ ‌will‌ ‌also‌ ‌be‌ ‌available‌ ‌to‌ ‌meritorious‌ ‌students‌ ‌of‌‌ this‌‌ programme.‌‌ The‌‌ students‌‌ will‌ ‌be‌ ‌awarded‌ ‌B.Tech.‌ ‌in‌ ‌X‌ ‌and‌ ‌Engineering‌‌ Science,‌‌ e.g.,‌‌ B.Tech.‌‌ in‌‌ Mechanical‌‌ Engineering‌‌ And‌ ‌Engineering‌ ‌Science.‌ ‌Students‌ ‌of‌ ‌this‌ ‌programme‌ ‌would‌ ‌not‌ ‌be‌ ‌able‌ ‌to‌‌ opt‌‌ for‌‌ any‌‌ other‌‌ specialization/minor.‌‌ ‌ 3-year‌ B.Sc.‌ in‌ Engineering‌ Science‌:‌‌ ‌ This‌‌ option‌‌ is‌‌ designed‌‌ mainly‌‌ for‌‌ under performing‌‌ students‌‌ as‌‌ an‌‌ exit‌‌ plan‌.‌‌‌ The‌‌ student‌‌ would‌‌ be‌‌ required‌‌ to‌‌ complete‌‌ required‌‌ credits‌‌ under‌‌ institute‌‌ and‌‌ engineering‌‌ science‌‌ core,‌‌ and‌‌ open‌‌ electives‌‌ categories.‌‌ ‌ Domain Options for B.Tech. (ES) [Back to index] There are various combinations of complementary domains that a student can opt in their 5th and 6th semester. A few examples are: CS+EE, CS+BB, CS+Chem, CS+Math,CS+Phy, AI+BB, AI+EE. CS+Chem [Back to index] Dancing Molecular: Study of properties of different elements for substituting Li-ion batteries using molecular dynamics. Molecular Dynamics is a computationally intensive task and required intense knowledge of Mathematics, Chemical Engineering, and Computer Science. CSE+EE [Back to index] Electrical engineering deals with the study and the application of electricity , electronics and electromagnetismComputer engineering deals with the design of computer systems which involves the design of the new hardware or software where knowledge of electronics is prerequisite Also we can clearly understand about the networking and the telecommunication. The objective of Engineering Science – Computer Science and Electrical Engineering program is to design the systems and components that capture, store, process, interpret, and transmit information or signals. Some of the most significant technological advances of the 20th century were either invented or put into practice by electrical engineers and computer scientists, including electric power systems; global broadcast and personal telecommunication systems; computer systems; computer networks; medical instrumentation, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computer-aided tomography (CAT); integrated circuits; lasers; household appliances; and feedback control, such as for autopilots. New technologies developed by electrical engineers and computer scientists are likely to be even more important in the 21st century as a new era of intelligent, information-driven systems is made possible by fundamental advances in faster communication rates, smaller devices, and greater computational capabilities. AI+EE [Back to index] The fifth generation (5G) wireless communications are expected to satisfy the diverse service requirements in various aspectsDue to the extreme range of 5G requirements,the design and optimization of 5G networks becomes very challenging. The future 5G network will require robust intelligent algorithms to adapt network protocols and resource management for different services in different scenarios. Artificial intelligence (AI), is a feasible solution for the emerging complex communication system design. It is now appropriate to apply AI technology to 5G wireless communications to tackle optimized physical layer design, complicated decision making, network management and resource optimization tasks in such networks The objective of Engineering Science – Artificial intelligence and Electrical Engineering program is to design the systems and components that has provided a great potential and space for optimization in the field of electrical engineering. This can not only bring about a significant improvement not only with regards to the economic aspects but also in the safety and the actual control of the operation. Ever since artificial intelligence reached a stage where it could be used in various fields in order to make work simpler, it has been used widely in various fields of life, primarily in robotics and computer programming. Recent studies and investigations have shown that artificial intelligence can also be a viable option in the field of electrical engineering especially as a solution to some longstanding power system problems where conventional methods experience some difficulty. Mech +Electrical [Back to index] Electromechanics focuses on the interaction of electrical and mechanical systems as a whole and how the two systems interact with each other. This process is especially prominent in systems such as those of DC or AC rotating electrical machines which can be designed and operated to generate power from a mechanical process (generator) or used to power a mechanical effect (motor). Electromechanical Robotics is one of its applications. Civil Engineering + AI [Back to index] With skylines of major cities around the world peppered with iconic buildings of all shapes and sizes, we can all agree that the boundaries and standards of design and engineering have been pushed beyond their limits. This is all thanks to the biggest game-changer in the industry—Artificial Intelligence in 3D Building Information Modeling (BIM).The construction process involves safety risks that can lead to actual accidents. AI provides the opportunity for more accurate data gathering from real-world context models to help civil engineers identify potential hazards in the construction process.Also, AI-enabled cameras and networks can continuously monitor all areas of construction and allow engineers to assess equipment use, track progress, and analyze activities in real-time, which helps in the early detection of potential risk hazards. A good example of the application of such technology lies in the popularity of Indus.ai. This San Francisco tech company set AI-supported cameras around construction sites to provide real-time footage while collecting and evaluating data to give construction managers insights on things like the movement of materials and labor deployment at various areas of the site. This interactive dashboard also allows civil engineers to anticipate anything that may prove dangerous and make better decisions with regard to worker’s safety. Material Science + AI [Back to index] Materials science or solid-state physics is plagued by the ‘curse of dimensionality’. This means even for a reasonable number of constituents of a material, the structure-property relationships are determined by a high-dimensional parameter space. These relationships are not something trivial to be elucidated only by experiments or theory. This is precisely where the applications of AI or machine learning (ML) come into play. Bio +AI [Back to index] AI is also making its presence felt in biotechnology, where it has become integral to many aspects of drug discovery and development. By leveraging machine learning, AI can manage disparate clinical trial datasets, enable virtual screening, and analyze vast amounts of data. Besides reducing clinical trial costs, AI can gain otherwise unobtainable insights and feed them back into the drug development process. AI technologies to serve the biotech industry are being developed by several companies. Their services are rapidly becoming indispensable as older methods like classical statistical analysis or manual image scanning reach their practical limits. Curriculum [Back to index] First and Second Semester [Back to index] Table-ES-Sem12 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) 1st Semester (ES) Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 2nd Semester (ES) Category_ Course Name_ L-T-P_ Credits_ 1 IE EEL1010: Introduction to Electrical Engineering 3-0-2 4 1 IE MEL1010:Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 3.0 2 IE CSL1010: Introduction to Computer Science 3-0-2 4 2 IS CYL1010:Chemistry 3-0-0 3.0 3 IE BBL1010: Introduction to Bioengineering 3-0-2 4 3 IS PHL:1010 Electromagnetism and OpticsPhysics 3-0-0 3.0 4 IS MAL1010: Mathematics 1 3-1-0 4 4 IS MAL1020: Mathematics II 3-1-0 4.0 5 IE MEP1010: Engineering Visualization 0-0-2 1 5 IS PHP1010:Physics Laboratory 0-0-2 1.0 6 NE OAE1010: Engineering Design 1 0-0-2 1 6 IS CYP1010:Chemistry Lab 0-0-2 1.0 7 NH HSN1010: Communication Skill 1 0-0-2 1 7 IE MEP1020:Engineering Realization 0-0-2 1.0 8 NH OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities 0-0-1 0.5 8 NE OAE1020: Engineering Design II 0-0-2 1.0 9 NH OSN1020: Performing Arts 1/ Sports 1 0-0-1 0.5 9 NH HSN1020:Communication Skill II 0-0-2 1.0 Total Graded 17 10 NH OSN1040: Social Connect and Responsibilities 0-0-1 0.5 Total Non-Graded 3 11 NH OSN1050: Performing Arts 2/ Sports 2 0-0-1 0.5 Total Graded 16.0 Total Non-Graded 3.0 Third and Fourth Semester [Back to index] Table-ES-Sem34 (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) 3rd Semester (ES) Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 4th Semester (ES) Category_ Course Name_ L-T-P_ Credits_ 1 ES CSL2020 Data Structuresand Algorithms 3-0-2 4 1 ES CSL2050 Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning 3-0-2 4 2 ES MAL2010 Probability,Statistics and Stochastic Processes 3-1-0 4 2 ES CSL2060 Embedded Systems and IoT 3-0-2 4 3 ES PHL2060 Modern Physics 3-0-0 3 3 ES CSL2070 Modelling and Simulation 3-0-2 4 4 IE EEL2010 Signals andSystems 3-1-0 4 4 ES CSL2040 Design and analysis of Experiments 3-0-0 3 5 IE MEL2020 Thermodynamics 3-1-0 4 5 IE MTL2013 Materials Selection 1-0-0 1 6 IE MTL2014 ComputationalMaterial Design 1-0-0 1 6 IE MTL2012 Structure of Materials 1-0-0 1 7 NE Intro. To Profession 0-0-2 1 7 IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 Total Graded 20 Total Graded 20 Total Non-Graded 1 Total Non-Graded 0 Engineering Science Undergraduate Committee [Back to index] It is a committee established to ensure the course is run efficiently and effectively. Prof. Ajay Agrawal,Dept. of Electrical Engineering,Chairperson Dr. Dip Shankar Banerjee,Asst. Professor, Dept. of CSE,Faculty Advisor Dr. Ankur Gupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Member Dr. Deepika Bhattu,Asst. Professor, Dept of Civil Engineering, Faculty Advisor Dr. Angan Sengupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Time Table cordinator Dr. Ritu Gupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Chemistry, Member Dr. Prasenjeet A. Tribhuvan, Asst. Professor, Dept. of H&SS, Member Dr. Harshit Agarwal, Asst. Professor, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Member-Convener Student Details [Back to index] B20ES001 Adarsh Kumar __ CSE+EE (Communications) B20ES014 Akarshan __ CSE+EE (Communications) B20ES008 Samyak Bafna __ AI/DS + EE (Communications) B20ES004 Dhruv Agarwal __ AI/DS + Chemical B20ES005 Harsh Jaiswal __ CSE+EE (Communications) B20ES009 Utkarsh __ CSE+Chemical B20ES006 Narahari Sai Divya __ Bio Engineering + AI/DS B20ES007 Poonam Suthar __ BioEngineering + AI/DS B20ES016 Prakhar Katiyar __ CSE+Chemical B20ES013 Prashant Kumar __ CSE+EE (Communications) B20ES015 Sujal Gupta __ CSE+Chemical B20ES011 Vidhi Gupta __ CSE+Chemica B20ES010 Yash Anand __ CSE+Bio Engineering B20ES012 Yash Ruhatiya __ CSE+Bio Engineering Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Specialization/Minor/Dual Degree UG Program Options ‌IITJ/OA/C/2021-22/25/3716‌ Dated 23 December 2021 Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree ‌Major/Department‌‌ Specialization,‌‌ Minor/Interdisciplinary‌‌ Specialization Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (AI) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (BB) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (EE) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CI) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CH) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CSE) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (ME) Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (MT) Specialization/Minor Options for B.S. (Chemistry) Specialization/Minor Options for B.S. (Physics) Dual Degree Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (AI) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (BB) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (EE) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CI) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CH) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CSE) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (ME) Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (MT) Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree [Back to index] ‌Major/Department‌‌ Specialization,‌‌ Minor/Interdisciplinary‌‌ Specialization [Back to index] Eligibility Criteria [Back to index] ‌A‌ ‌student‌ ‌should‌ ‌have‌ ‌earned‌ ‌a‌ ‌minimum‌ ‌of‌ ‌85‌ ‌graded‌ ‌credits‌ ‌with‌ ‌the‌ ‌CGPA‌ ‌more‌ than‌ ‌or‌ ‌equal‌ ‌to‌ ‌6.0‌ ‌at‌ ‌the‌ ‌end‌ ‌of‌ ‌the‌ ‌5th‌ semester‌ ‌to‌ ‌opt‌ ‌for‌ ‌capability‌ ‌linked‌ opportunity.‌ ‌A student‌ who‌‌ has completed‌ 85‌‌ graded‌ credits‌‌ can‌‌ take‌‌‌ 700‌‌ Level‌‌‌ courses. ‌ Credits Requirements [Back to index] A‌ ‌student‌ ‌needs‌ ‌to‌ ‌complete‌ ‌a‌ ‌total‌ ‌of‌ ‌20‌ ‌Credits‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌Major/Department‌‌Specialization‌‌or‌ ‌Minor/Interdisciplinary‌‌ Specialization‌‌ area‌‌ offered.‌‌ Ten (10)‌ Credits‌‌ out‌‌ of‌‌ 20‌‌Will‌‌ be‌‌ taken‌‌ up‌‌ as‌‌ a‌‌ part‌‌ of‌‌ Open‌‌ electives,‌‌ where as‌‌ the‌‌ student‌‌ is‌‌ required‌‌ to‌‌ opt‌‌ for‌‌ an‌ ‌additional‌ ‌10‌ ‌credits‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌ ‌form‌ ‌of‌ ‌course‌ ‌overload.‌ ‌This‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌indicated‌ ‌in‌ ‌the‌‌ degree.‌ ‌‌ Starting‌ ‌from‌ ‌the‌ ‌sixth‌ ‌semester,‌ ‌students‌ ‌who‌ ‌have‌ ‌earned‌ ‌85‌ ‌graded‌ ‌credits‌ ‌with ‌CGPA‌ ‌more‌ ‌than‌ ‌or‌‌ equal‌‌ to‌‌ 6.0‌‌ are‌‌ permitted‌‌ to‌‌ take‌‌ up‌‌to‌‌ 4‌‌ extra‌‌ Credits‌‌ as‌‌ part‌‌ of‌ their‌ ‌normal‌ ‌load,‌ ‌which‌ ‌forms‌ ‌part‌ ‌of‌ ‌her/his‌ ‌additional‌ ‌learning‌ ‌component,‌ ‌every‌ semester‌‌ in‌‌ addition‌‌ to‌‌ the‌‌ prescribed‌‌ courses‌‌ for‌‌ their‌‌ degree.‌ ‌ Table-UGProgramOptions (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Institute Core Program Linked (L) Program Core (P) Open (O) Specialization/Minor M.Tech./MBA(M) Total Graded Non-Graded (N) Total Graded+Non-Graded Program Engineering (IE) Science (IS) Humanities (IH) Science (LS) Program Compulsory (PC) Program Electives (PE) B.Tech. Project (PP) Open Electives (OE) Compulsory (SC) Electives (SE) Compulsory (MC) Electives (ME) Open Electives (MO) Project (MP) Humanities (NH) Engineering (NE) Design/Practical Experience (ND) MBA Winter Internship Dual Degree Summer 1 Dual Degree Summer 2 B.Tech. (Regular) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 150 6 3 6 0 0 0 165 B.Tech. With Specialization/Minor 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 8 12 0 0 0 0 160 6 3 6 0 0 0 175 Dual Degree (B.Tech.+M.Tech) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 0 0 31# 3 20 194 6 3 6 0 2 0 211 Dual Degree (B.Tech.+MBA) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 0 0 55# 0 3 198 6 3 4 2 5 4 222 Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (AI) [Back to index] Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality VLSI Systems Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (BB) [Back to index] Therapeutic Engineering and Drug Discovery Microbial Systems Engineering Artificial Intelligence Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (EE) [Back to index] Cyber-Physical Systems Communication Engineering Nano and Flexible Electronics VLSI Systems Smart Grid Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality Artificial Intelligence Energy Engineering Micro-Nano Engineering Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CI) [Back to index] Artificial Intelligence Smart Infrastructure Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Data Science Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CH) [Back to index] Sustainability Molecular Engineering Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Cyber-Physical Systems Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (CSE) [Back to index] Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality VLSI Systems Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (ME) [Back to index] Micro-Nano Engineering Design Engineering Smart Manufacturing Visual Computing Artificial Intelligence Cyber-Physical Systems Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.Tech. (MT) [Back to index] Smart Manufacturing Data Science Artificial Intelligence Engineering Innovation Computational Materials Engineering Structural Materials Functional Materials Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization/Minor Options for B.S. (Chemistry) [Back to index] Spectroscopy and Dynamics Organic and Organometallic Catalysis Advanced Energy Materials Entrepreneurship Specialization/Minor Options for B.S. (Physics) [Back to index] Advanced Energy Materials Photonics Quantum Technologies Entrepreneurship Dual Degree [Back to index] Eligibility Criteria [Back to index] Students‌ ‌who‌ ‌have‌ ‌already‌ ‌opted‌ ‌for‌ ‌Major/Department‌ ‌Specialization,‌‌Minor/Interdisciplinary‌ ‌Specialization‌ ‌can‌ ‌opt‌ ‌for‌ ‌a‌ ‌dual-degree‌ ‌Programme‌ ‌from‌ ‌the‌‌ eighth‌‌ semester‌‌ provided‌‌ they‌‌ have‌‌ earned‌‌ a‌‌ minimum‌‌ of‌‌‌ 130‌‌ graded‌‌‌ Credits‌‌ with‌‌ at‌‌ least‌ ‌6‌ ‌CGPA‌ ‌at‌ ‌the‌ ‌end‌ ‌of‌‌ the‌‌ 7th‌‌ semester. As‌‌ a‌‌ special‌‌ case,‌‌ a‌‌ student‌‌ may‌‌ be‌‌ allowed‌‌ to‌‌ opt‌‌ for‌‌ a‌‌ dual‌‌ degree‌‌ by‌‌ the‌‌ end‌‌ of‌‌ 8th‌‌ Semester‌‌ if‌‌ the‌‌ student‌‌ has‌‌ at‌‌least‌‌ 6‌‌ CGPA‌‌ and ‌‌continued‌‌ specialization. ‌ ‌ Credits Requirements for B.Tech.‌‌+‌‌M.Tech./MBA‌‌ Dual‌‌ Degree‌‌ in‌‌ the‌‌ chosen‌‌ specialisation‌ [Back to index] ‌A‌ ‌student‌ ‌needs‌ ‌to‌ ‌complete‌ ‌a‌‌ total‌‌ of‌‌‌ 54‌‌ graded‌‌ and‌‌ 2‌‌ non-graded‌‌ Credits‌‌ in‌‌ the‌‌ Minor,‌ ‌Department,‌ ‌or‌ ‌Interdisciplinary‌ ‌area‌ ‌offered‌ ‌towards‌ ‌M.Tech.‌ ‌and‌ 58‌ ‌ ‌graded‌‌ and‌ ‌11‌ ‌non-graded‌ ‌Credits‌ towards‌ ‌ ‌MBA.‌ ‌It‌ ‌will‌ ‌include‌ ‌credits‌ ‌earned‌ ‌for‌‌ Major/Department‌‌or‌‌ or Minor/‌‌Interdisciplinary‌‌ area‌‌ Specialization,‌‌‌ excluding‌‌‌ the‌‌ project‌‌ credits .‌ Credits‌ ‌ ‌of‌ ‌Minor/Specialization‌ ‌done‌ ‌in‌‌ Semester‌‌ VI‌‌ and‌‌ Semester‌‌ VII‌‌ if‌ ‌not‌ ‌part‌ ‌of‌ ‌M.Tech./MBA‌ ‌Programme‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌counted‌ ‌towards‌ ‌programme‌‌ electives.‌ ‌Students‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌required‌ ‌to‌ ‌complete‌ ‌all‌ ‌core‌ ‌courses‌ ‌except‌ ‌for‌‌ preparatory‌ ‌and‌ ‌bridge‌ ‌courses.‌ ‌Students‌ ‌will‌ ‌be‌ ‌required‌ ‌to‌ ‌take‌ ‌additional‌‌ Credit‌‌ of‌‌ Programme‌‌ Elective‌‌ against‌‌ preparatory‌‌ courses. ‌ ‌‌ Table-UGProgramOptions (use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table) Institute Core Program Linked (L) Program Core (P) Open (O) Specialization/Minor M.Tech./MBA(M) Total Graded Non-Graded (N) Total Graded+Non-Graded Program Engineering (IE) Science (IS) Humanities (IH) Science (LS) Program Compulsory (PC) Program Electives (PE) B.Tech. Project (PP) Open Electives (OE) Compulsory (SC) Electives (SE) Compulsory (MC) Electives (ME) Open Electives (MO) Project (MP) Humanities (NH) Engineering (NE) Design/Practical Experience (ND) MBA Winter Internship Dual Degree Summer 1 Dual Degree Summer 2 B.Tech. (Regular) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 150 6 3 6 0 0 0 165 B.Tech. With Specialization/Minor 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 8 12 0 0 0 0 160 6 3 6 0 0 0 175 Dual Degree (B.Tech.+M.Tech) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 0 0 31# 3 20 194 6 3 6 0 2 0 211 Dual Degree (B.Tech.+MBA) 32 18 12 7 50-52 18-16 3 0 0 0 55# 0 3 198 6 3 4 2 5 4 222 Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (AI) [Back to index] Sensors and IoT MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (BB) [Back to index] Artificial Intelligence Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (EE) [Back to index] Cyber-Physical Systems Sensors and IoT Artificial Intelligence Thermo Fluid Engineering MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CI) [Back to index] Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CH) [Back to index] Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Thermo Fluid Engineering Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (CSE) [Back to index] Sensors and IoT MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (ME) [Back to index] Cyber-Physical Systems Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Thermo Fluid Engineering Advanced Manufacturing and Design Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. (MT) [Back to index] Artificial Intelligence Advanced Manufacturing and Design Data and Computational Science Computational Materials Engineering Structural Materials Functional Materials MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

A Academic Calendar U UG Registration Guidelines F First Year Class Time-Table E Engineering Science F Forms S Specialization/Minor/Dual Degree Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

Old Regulations The Regulations governing four sets of degree Programs offered by the Institute are: 1. Bachelor of Technology Programs 1. B.Tech. (Bioengineering) 2. B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) For students who joined in July 2014 and later 3. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) For students who joined before July 2014 4. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) 2. Master of Science Programs 1. M.Sc. (Chemistry) For all students 2. M.Sc. (Mathematics) 3. M.Sc. (Physics) 3. Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering) 2. M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) 3. M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) For students who joined in July 2014 and later 4. M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) For students who joined before July 2014 5. M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering) 4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs 1. Ph.D. (Bioscience and Bioengineering) For students who joined in July 2014 and later 2. Ph.D. (Chemistry) For students who joined before July 2014 3. Ph.D. (Humanities & Social Sciences) 4. Ph.D. (Mathematics) 5. Ph.D. (Physics) 6. Ph.D. (Computer Science & Engineering) 7. Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering) 8. Ph.D. (Mechanical Engineering) 9. Ph.D. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES Rules & Regulations ( ​ For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards ​ ) Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 1 1. ​ ​ INTRODUCTION Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop the highest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities, social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would be able to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such as energy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientific knowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness, humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities on campus. The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life long process of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmes focus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creative inquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objective mind. The academic programmes are based on three tenets of (1) semester system, (2) Credit System and (3) Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a duly constituted Academic Committee (AC) through the office of Academics. The AC will be chaired by Dean (Academics). In the absence of Dean (Academics), Associate Dean (Academics- PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics). The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a high standard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Within this broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes can include additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. These academic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriate modifications/ improvements as and when necessary. 2. ACADEMIC SESSION The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 2 3. REGISTRATION a. Registration: ​ Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she/he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late registration. b. Provisional Registration: ​ A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. c. Late Registration: ​ If the student does not register by the date of late registration as mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he/she will be deregistered. The appeal against deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine. d. Adding and Dropping of Courses: A student may add or drop course(s) with approval of the Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. e. Withdrawing from a Course: After the last date of add-drop, a student will have the option of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically within four weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. The withdrawn course will be mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘W’. f. Cancellation of Semester Registration: Absence for a period of four or more weeks during a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from all the courses in that semester. g. Summer course registration: ​ A department may offer summer courses to enable the students to clear their backlog courses and/or regular credit courses. A course will run during summer provided a faculty member(s) is available for running the course. The course is offered on approval of the Dean. 4. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 ​ Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. 4.1.2 Course Structure All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course are based on the number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course with a passing grade will earn an equivalent number of credits. Based on the required academic maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all parameters related to course numbering scheme. 3 Table 4.1 ​ Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1 Descriptions Offering Department/IDRP Course Type Level of Courses Unique Identification Number Indicates Fractal Categories See Table 4.2 See Table 4.3 See Table 4.4 This code will be given centrally by the office of academics 0: Regular 1: Fractal 1 2: Fractal 2 3: Fractal 3 Note: ​ Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0 Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1 Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming 1-0-0 MEL7XX2 Fractal 3: Robot Control 1-0-0 MEL7XX3 Table 4.2 ​ Departmental Code S. N. Type Department/Platform/Office Department 1 ME Mechanical Engineering 2 CS Computer Science and Engineering 3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering 7 MT Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 8 CY Chemistry 9 MA Mathematics 10 PH Physics 11 HS Humanities and Social Science Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs) 12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology 14 IO Internet of Things and Applications 15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles (AUV) 16 QC Quantum Information and Computation 17 CG Cognitive Science 18 SH Smart Healthcare Others 19 OA Office of Academics 20 OS Office of Students 4 Table 4.3 ​ Types for Courses S. N. Course Type Category 1 L Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.) 2 P Practical / Practice-based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc.) 3 D Project-based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects) 4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis 6 Q Seminar Courses 7 S Independent Study 8 R Engineering innovation 9 E Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded) Table 4.4 ​ Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=0) 2 200 3 300 B.Tech. (Cr>=38) 4 400 B.Tech. (Cr>=75) 5 500 Preparatory ​ Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes (NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree) M.Tech. (Cr=0) M. Sc. (Cr=0) 6 600 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=75) M.Sc. (Cr>=0) M.Tech. (Cr >= 0) 7 700 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=100) M.Sc. (Cr >=30) M.Tech. (Cr>=0) Ph.D. (Cr>=0) Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. (Cr>=14) Ph.D. (Cr>=0) 4.1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved courses may be offered during any semester/summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses offered can be from one of the following categories: a) Regular course: A regular course has 14 hours of classroom engagement per one credit. A regular course can be under elective or core/compulsory categories. 5 Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students registers for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5 registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study course as per the following section. b) Self-study Course A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a self-study course are as follows: ● A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. ● A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in self-study mode provided he/she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. ● Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics). ● Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course. ● The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester. ● A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. ● Not exceeding 10% of the total graded credit can be opted as a self-study course. c) Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interest under the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involving an Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a sense of own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. A student having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with the recommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study course are as follows: ● A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-study course not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program. Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of the program and will appear with the title “Independent Study” on the transcript. ● Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/IRC. The final sanction of an independent-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics). ● Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course. ● The course will be arranged, planned and managed by a supervising professor. The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors, as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance 6 of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per Subsection 5.2. The student shall have access to his/her answer paper(s) of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him/her by the Instructor(s) concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either (i) direct contact (ii) synchronized remote contact (iii) guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and/or the students to be concurrently connected to the classroom interaction via electronic conferencing involving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours (typically 25%) of the stipulated contact hours. In guided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up the study of an approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the Senate, under the supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring the use of the specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of Dean (Academics) on the recommendations of Instructor of the course being audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the student’s attendance falls below 75%, the student will be allowed to appear for the exams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75% will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the cut-off for C grade in a course. 4.2 ​ ​ Evaluation The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-papers and projects. The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each subject in each semester. 7 ● Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses (less than 3 credits) must have at least one examination. ● The total weightage of examination component (three examinations for a 14 week-long course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure. ● Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class. ● The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. ​ ​ GRADING SYSTEM 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1 ​ Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A* 10 Exceptional 2 A 10 Outstanding 3 A- 9 Excellent 4 B 8 Very Good 5 B- 7 Good 6 C 6 Average 7 C- 5 Below Average 8 D 4 Marginal 9 E 2 Poor 10 F 0 Fail 11 I Incomplete 12 S Satisfactory in Course 13 X Thesis Continuation 14 U Unsatisfactory 15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A* ‘A*’ grade has the same grade point as ‘A’ grade. The grade ‘A*’ indicates exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course/(s) in which the number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 % of the total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade ‘A*’ is not awarded for projects /seminars. 8 2 E ‘E’ Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the cutoff marks for ‘D’ Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute. Students who obtain an ‘E’ Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the ‘E’ grade converted to a ‘D’ Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have ‘E’ Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional examination for an ‘E’ Grade. The additional examination will be conducted within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any reason(s), he/she will not get any additional chance. If a student with ‘E’ grade in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an ‘F’ grade in the course, he/she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In case the course is elective, the student may take the same course again or any other course. ‘E’ and ‘F’ Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA; however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An ‘I’ grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his/her request to denote incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An ‘I’ grade is awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for ‘I’ grade should be made at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation requirements for such students in the corresponding course(s) should be completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’ grade is converted to a regular grade. 4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the unsatisfactory (U) grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for continuation 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit or non-graded courses. 7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and timeline would be as per Academic Calendar. 1. Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester: 2. Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors. 3. Finalization of grades by instructors 4. Grade moderation by department/institute level committee for department/institute-wide courses 9 5. Recommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a moderation committee 6. Display of grades by Instructors 7. Grade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head of the department 8. Approval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG) 9. Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG) 10. Approval of results by the Chairman Senate 11. Results once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional cases, the student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 ​ ​ Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G ​ 1 ​ , G ​ 2 ​ , … G ​ N ​ , and the corresponding credits C ​ 1 ​ , C ​ 2 ​ , … C ​ N ​ , then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades (A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D), except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation are based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. GRADE CARD AND TRANSCRIPT A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS IN SPECIAL CASES The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 10 8. MAKE-UP EXAMINATIONS A student who has missed minor(s) or the major examination due to genuine reasons like illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The student should make an application to the Dean (Academics) through the course instructor within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of the following categories: ● Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the Medical Officer of the Institute that he/she was admitted to the Hospital during the period of the missed quiz/exam. ● Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital before they proceed for such consultation. ● Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital. ● A student staying outside the Campus permanently / temporarily must produce a medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent/guardian. A slot-wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup / supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no circumstances, prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance. 11 12 A. REGULATIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES 13 9. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) programs, and capability linked opportunities for undergraduate students to complete Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specializations or Department Area Specialization. A student can also opt for M.Tech.(dual degree) in Departmental Area or Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in Entrepreneurship or Department Area Specialization in Engineering innovation. 10. UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes 10.1.1 General Admissions Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi. Persons interested in these programs are required to apply through the Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries. 10.1.3 Change/Enhancement of Program A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through branch change. A student can enhance his/her programme to a Minor/Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor/Interdisciplinary Area, Major/Department Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Engineering innovation (through Industrial Translation). The rules governing these changes are given in Section 18 (branch change) and Section 11.2 (for all others). 10.2 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 10.3 Student Exchange Program Student Exchange Program provides for a one/two-semester visit by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU) between the institutions. Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework/research at the Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework/research to the enrolled degree program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU). Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU. 14 On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her/his program requirements which s/he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at the visited academic institution as an exchange student and other documents/material that the concerned DUGC may require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her/his programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence committee for its approval. Moreover, ● The credits/grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of his/her transcripts. ● IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester. ● The CGPA calculation based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be considered for award of prizes. ● The credits earned at the visited academic institutions will be taken into account for the calculation of minimum required credits for the award of the degree. 10.4 Visiting Students A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean (Academics). A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute. 10.5 Cancellation of Admission Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s). Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes. 15 11. CURRICULUM AND ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS 11.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 11.1 ​ LTP-structure and credit assignment. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours ​ # Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond Contact Hours (BCH) Total Hours (TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students A B.Tech. student can opt for one of the following capabilities Linked Opportunities 1) Major/Department Specialization 2) Interdisciplinary Specialization 3) Minor 4) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting (a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization A student should have earned a minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end on 6 ​ th ​ semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization Students who have already opted for Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements (a) Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major/Department Specialization or Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree. Registration for Additional Courses for Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor 16 Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her/his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. (b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered. It will include credits earned for Major/Department or Minor/ Interdisciplinary area Specialization excluding the project credits. 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table below: Table 11.2 ​ Course Categories and Academic requirements S.N . Course Type Course Category B.Tech. Regular B.Tech. with Specialization Dual Degree 1 Institute Core (I) Engineering (IE) 34 34 34 Science (IS) 16 16 16 Humanities (IH) 12 12 12 2 Programme Linked (L) Science (LS) 7 7 7 3 Programme Core (P) Programme Compulsory (PC) 50 50 50 Programme Electives (PE) 18 18 18 B.Tech. Project (PP) 3 3 3 4 Open (O) Electives (OE) 10 0 0 5 Specialization (Major/Minor/Department/ Interdisciplinary) (S) Compulsory (SC) 0 8 8 Elective (SE) 0 12 12# 6 M.Tech. (M) in Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary Area Compulsory (MC) 0 0 9 Electives (ME) 0 0 5 Project (MP) 0 0 16 Open Electives (MO) 0 0 6 Total Graded 150 160 196 7 Non-Graded (N) Humanities (NH) 6 6 6 Engineering (NE) 3 3 3 Design/Practical Experience (ND) 6 6 6 Total Graded+Non Graded 165 175 211 # Must not include any project course 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters. 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table: 17 Table 11.3 ​ Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester Description Minimum number of credits to be earned GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS SC/ST/PD Minimum for Continuation 18 14 If a student does not meet the criteria specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once. Dean (UG/PG) should propose a guideline for mentoring the student under probation. Dean of Students should also involve in the process. If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 11.5.1 Criteria to put a student on Academic Probation ​ : ● From the third semester onward if a student fails to earn a minimum of 12 credits in any registered semester, then he/she will be placed on academic probation. ● A student placed on probation shall be monitored, including mandatory attendance in classes, special tutorials and mentoring. Mentoring would comprise structured guidance under a senior student. ● If a student is on academic probation for two consecutive registered semesters, then his/her registration will be terminated. ● If a student earns less than or equal to 15 credits in any registered semester a warning shall be given to him/her and intimation be sent to the parents. ● The two semesters allowed for the academic probation should be counted towards the total duration allowed for the program. 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/ teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5. A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the 14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer vacations. 12. UG REGISTRATION 12.1 Summer Courses Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students 18 who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register during this period. For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration. In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance. The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 12.2 Limits on Registration ● An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester. ● The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25. ● An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits per semester for independent-study or self-study course 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation) may register for a maximum of 16 credits. Over-load: ​ Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation and satisfy one of the following criteria: ● Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to complete all the requirements of their programme. ● Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed to overload. 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme A B.Tech. student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 13. EVALUATION OF SPECIAL UG ONLY COURSES 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation ● DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. ● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project. ● DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. 19 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC) ● The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the convenor. 13.2 Engineering Innovation ● At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC. ● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project/ Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. ● Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.3 Design Project Evaluation ● At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC. ● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project and S or U grade is awarded. ● Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.4 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project ● Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). ● The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester. ● Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). ● The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25. 13.5 Entrepreneurship Project ● At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by Dean (Academics-UG)/Associate Dean (Academics-UG). ● The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. 14. TERMINATION 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student (a) Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR (b) Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR (c) Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee constituted for the purpose; OR (d) Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of the program; OR (e) Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters. 20 14.2 Appeal against Termination A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 15. LEAVE RULES Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DUGC. 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 15.2 Short Leave A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason. 15.3 Semester Withdrawal It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 15.4 Academic Leave To help students broaden their horizons and gain course/work experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other academic institutes/ Industry/ R&D organization in India or abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as (a) Fieldwork (b) Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ (c) Entrepreneurship initiative (d) Engineering innovation (e) Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in India or abroad (f) Internship work All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted. A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two semesters on academic leave. A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee. 16. BRANCH CHANGE (a) An undergraduate student is eligible to apply for branch change at the end of the second semester only, provided the student satisfies the following criteria: 21 1. Secured a CGPA, at the end of the second semester, of: i. Greater than or equal to 7.0 for SC/ST and PD applicants ii. Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants 2. Completed all prescribed course credits for the first two semesters (including the non-graded courses). 3. No backlog at the end of the second semester. (b) The student should have no disciplinary action against him/her. (c) Change of the branch will be permitted strictly in the order of merit as determined by CGPA at the end of the second semester. Each available seat may be occupied by students of any category. For students of SC/ST/PD category, concession in eligibility criteria is given as per rule (a). (d) In case more than one student applying for branch change have the same CGPA, the tie shall be resolved on the basis of JEE ranks of such applicants. (e) In making a change of branch, the strength of a branch should not fall below ​ 85% of the sanctioned strength and should not go above ​ 115% ​ of the sanctioned strength. (f) The conditions mentioned in item (a) above will not be insisted upon for change to a branch in which a vacancy exists with reference to the sanctioned strengths, and the concerned student was eligible as per JEE Rank for admission to that branch at the time of entry to IIT Jodhpur. (g) Notwithstanding any of the conditions listed above, a student with CGPA of ​ 9 or more at the end of the second semester will be allowed to move to a branch of his/her choice. 17. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the conditions laid down in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4. 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence Minimum Duration of Residence is given in the table below: Table 17.1 ​ Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence (in semesters) 1. B. Tech. (including minor/department/interdisciplinary area specialization) 6 2. B. Tech. – M.Tech. 8 17.2 Academic The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees ​ . 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics). 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 22 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports, National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two semesters during their B.Tech. Program. 17.6 Award of Degrees 17.6.1 Provisional Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.2 Degree Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. The certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 18. AMENDMENTS Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs. 23 B. REGULATIONS FOR POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES 24 19. POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate programmes. 1. Master of Science (M.Sc.) 2. Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech. 3. Master of Technology (M.Tech.) 4. Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. 5. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) 20. POSTGRADUATE ADMISSIONS The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition, the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis and admit students as per the existing procedure. 20.1 Categories of Admission A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories i. Full-time regular ii. Full-time sponsored iii. Part-time iv. External v. Executive However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program). i) Full-time Regular In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii) Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience. iii) Part-time A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. iv) External A student working in an industry/R&D establishment/academic institution which is equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v) Executive (only for M. Tech.) A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in 1. An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR 2. Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years. 25 3. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote contact mode and limited direct interaction 20.2 Eligibility ​ ​ for Admission (a) The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate. (b) The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate from time to time. (c) Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of Governors. 20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular) The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. (a) The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. (b) The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.2 Admission to M Sc – M Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular) The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. (a) The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organized by IITs. (b) The applicants having a bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline (3- or 4-year program) may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category (b) must have a minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute. 20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program (Regular) (a) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4 year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field (b) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. (c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 26 20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program ​ ​ (Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored) (a) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field. (b) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category (4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. (c) The applicant must have a minimum of ​ two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration. (d) The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular) (a) The applicant must have bachelor’s degree in engineering or science (4-year program) or a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field (b) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute. (c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular) (a) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. (b) The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), OR (c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, OR (d) The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). 20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme (QIP), Defence Personnel The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27 20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time of applying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category. Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for admission to the programme. The department's recommendation will be sent to the Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time) (a) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad. (b) The applicant must have a master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), OR (c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree, OR (d) The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST). (e) The applicant must have a minimum of ​ two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. (f) The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to complete part of his/her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be routed through the office of Dean R&D. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 20.4 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 28 21 PG REGISTRATION 21.1 Limits on Registration Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs: ● M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10 credits in a semester. ● M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.1. Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester/Summer Term M.Tech. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Regular Semester Executive (Accelerated) 24 10 Executive (Normal) 17 10 Executive (Slow-Paced) 12 3 Executive (Part Time) 12 3 Full-time (Regular/Sponsored) 17 10 External 20 10 Part-time 12 3 Summer Term Executive (Accelerated) 16 0 Executive (Normal) 9 0 Executive (Slow-Paced) 6 0 Full-time (Regular) 9 5 Full-time (Sponsored) 9 0 External 9 0 Part-time 6 0 ● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/Direct Ph.D. (Joining after B.Tech.) - The maximum and minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent to that of an M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student. ● Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.2. Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student (Regular) can register for during the Regular semester Ph.D. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 12 6 External 12 6 Part-Time 12 3 21.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA) A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean(academic). The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 29 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth semester with the approval of DRC, provided his/her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be required to complete his/her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester. All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may be allowed to change his/her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be counted towards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements. 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: i) have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement; ii) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC; iii) produce a "No Objection" Certificate from his/her employer for carrying out the research work. 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program ● M.Sc. ​ - 8 registered semester ● M.Tech. (Regular and Part-time/External/Executive) ​ - 12 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. ● Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree (Regular and Part-time/External) - 14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. ● Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC. 21.5 Course Registration Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and Table 4.4. The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during her/his Masters or Bachelors program. 30 22 ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS 22.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programmes The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 22.1 ​ LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours ​ # Total Credits (TC=TH/3) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond Contact Hours (BCH) Total Hours (TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. Table 22.2 ​ LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech./Ph.D. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours ​ # Total Credits (TC=TH/4) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond Contact Hours (BCH) Total Hours (TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.5 1 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 3 4 1 1 hour of Thesis (Ph.D.) 0-0-1 1 3 4 1 #Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. 22.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes 1) Compulsory Course (MC) 2) Programme Elective (ME) 3) Open Elective (MO) 4) Project works (MP) 5) Non-graded (NG) 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3. 31 Table 22.3 ​ Programs/ Credits to be earned for MSc students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. (Chemistry) 38 18 06 15 77 M.Sc. (Mathematics) 38 18 06 15 77 M.Sc. (Physics) 38 18 06 15 77 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 22.4. Table 22.4 ​ Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing Engineering and Design) 19 15 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 06 16 4 61 M.Tech (Data and Computational Sciences) 20 15 06 16 4 61 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3 and 22.4. 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree Course categories and academic requirements for MTech - PhD dual degree students are given below in Table 22.5. Table 22.5 ​ Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 06 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 06 16 4 62 32 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Communication and Signal Processing) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Manufacturing Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Design Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Metallurgical and Materials Engineering) 16 18 06 16 4 60 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 06 16 4 61 The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6. Table 22.6 ​ Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1. Engineering discipline/ IDRPs M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 30 48 2. Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 12 48 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements 22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7. 33 Table 22.7 ​ Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme For graduation 1 M.Sc. (only graduation requirement) Refer 22.8.2 5.0 2 M.Tech. 5.0 5.0 3 Dual Degree (M.Sc. and M.Tech.) 5.0 5.0 4 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7.0 7.0 5 Ph.D. 7.0 7.5 at the completion of course work 22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.- ​ The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for continuation in the program. 22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship is given in below Table 22.8 Table 22.8 ​ Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship 1 M.Tech. 6.5 2 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 7.0 3 Ph.D. 7.0 23. LEAVE RULES Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DRC. 23.1 Leave A maximum of 30 days in an academic year (including leave on medical grounds + mid semester break). The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer/winter term or mid-semester break. A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC without assistantship during that period. 23.2 Other Leaves Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme. Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD. 34 23.3 Semester Withdrawal May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 23.4 Academic Leave Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as 1. Fieldwork 2. Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library 3. Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ 4. Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium 5. Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision 6. Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as indicated in his research proposal 7. Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or abroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted. SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during academic leave. ● A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. ● A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 24.1 M.Sc. Program Merit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms. 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of the second year with (a) CGPA>=8 OR (b) have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 24.3 M.Tech. Program A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 35 24.4 Executive M Tech Program Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute. 24.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with regular Ph.D. students. 24.6 Ph.D. Program A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. (a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master's degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science departments. (b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-bachelor's degree (c) A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the qualifier requirement. The Teaching/Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of the Thesis. 25. RULES AND REGULATION FOR CONDUCT AND EVALUATION OF M. TECH./M.SC. PROJECT ● Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). ● The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. ● Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). ● Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee consisting of DRC, supervisor(s) and two members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. ● A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer semester following 2 ​ nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be evaluated by his supervisor. 36 26 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PH. D. /M. TECH.-PH. D. DUAL DEGREE PROGRAM 26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s) 26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research. There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of the candidate at the time of selection. 26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s) ● Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of selection. ● Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). ● For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. - Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester ● The Convener, DRC (Department Research Committee)/Coordinator (Interdisciplinary Research Program) would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s). ● There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate. ● A supervisor from outside the institute, ​ before the qualifier ​ , may be appointed on the request of student/supervisor(s) with the recommendation of the DRC/IRC and the Dean (Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate. ● The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor ● Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC/IRC (Interdisciplinary Research Committee) shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative requirements. ● Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor. ● The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. ● The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisor’s retirement/resignation. 26.1.4 ​ Composition of ​ Departmental ​ Research Committee (DRC) The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor/Associate Professor proposed by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor/Associate Professor nominated by Head of the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The DRC has to be approved by Dean (Academics). Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 37 26.1.5 ​ Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required, realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC. 26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) 26.3.1 Composition of SRC ● The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also). ● A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics). ● The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean (Academics). ● The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. ● Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record. ● Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. ● The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii) A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the year. 2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the year. The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the supervisor(s) through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean (academics) 38 26.5 ​ ​ Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination 3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and in any case ​ not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the seventh semester. 26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student ● The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research. ● The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the Department/IDRP. ● The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. ● Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area. ● The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. ● The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within ​ two weeks ​ of SRC formation. ● All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days. ● A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. ● If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt. ● For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: ● Ph.D. : within 3 semesters ● Direct Ph.D. and MTech - PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the 39 area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal. 26.5.3 Research Proposal Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the candidate. 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D. degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program ● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied. ● The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of registration. 26.8 Cancellation of Registration ● The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. ● The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 26.9 Synopsis ● Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC. ● The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. ● Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis report. ● Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within ​ six months of the open seminar date. If required, an extension of ​ three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of SRC. ● If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis again. ● On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis, the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. 40 ● The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals/conference). 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines should be followed ● The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; ● No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and ● The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. ● Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners ​ . ● The Chairman, Senate, shall select ​ minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. ​ In addition, SRC and Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis. ● The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the external examiner. ● One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. ● The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the Thesis. ● If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. ● If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. ● If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. ● If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time period of ​ 6 months in ​ consultation with the Supervisor(s). ● When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. ● The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D. degree to the student. 27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 41 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement Table 27.1 ​ Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration (in semesters) of Residence 1. M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4 2. M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree All qualifying degrees 7 3. M.Tech. Programs Full-time Regular /Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0 Executive All qualifying degrees 1 4. Ph. D. Programs Full-time Regular Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 2 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 5 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 2 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0 External All qualifying degrees 1 27.2 Academic The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 27.3 No Dues Clearance Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics) 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 42 27.5 Award of Degrees 27.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 28. AMENDMENTS Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT-Jodhpur. 43

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur No. IITJ/2020-21/Office of Academics/5%1/1 Dated: 26.10.2020 NOTIFICATION With reference to regulations for Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards, following amendments have been done with the approval of the competent authority; Amendment 1: Clause 22.8 of the regulations for Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards, Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship, the existing requirements are as follows; Progranmme Continuation in of For graduation Continuation Assistantship/ Programme Fellowship M.Tech. SGPA 6.0 (For first CGPA of 5 semester >=5) CGPA 5.0 SGPA 6.5 (For first | SGPA 6.5 (For first CGPA 7.5 at the semester >=6) Ph.D. semester >=6) completion of course work SGPA 6.5 (For first SGPA 6.5 (For first CGPA 7.0 semester >=5) M.Tech.-PhD semester >=5) d 2020 Assistant Registrar (Acdemics)

ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES Rules & Regulations(For Students enrolled from July 2022 onwards) Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 1. INTRODUCTION Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur aredesignedtodevelopthe highest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledge creationacross disciplinesobliteratingtraditionalboundariesbetweenscience,humanities,social sciences and engineering. IITJodhpur aims toproducequalityprofessionals whowouldbeable to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such as energy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientiﬁc knowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness, humility and teameﬀortamongitsgraduatesthroughcurricular,co-curricularandextra-curricularactivitieson campus. The academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the lifelongprocess of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmes focus on developing deep understandingof thesubject of studycoupledwithcreativeinquisitiveness andtheability to address and solve new problems with free and objective mind. The academic programmes arebasedonthreetenets of (1) semester system, (2) Credit System and (3) Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a duly constituted Academic Committee (AC) through the oﬃce of Academics. The AC will be chaired by Dean (Academics). In the absence of Dean (Academics), Associate Dean (Academics- PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics). TheSenateof theInstitutehas formulatedaset of guidelines andrules toensurehighstandard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Within this broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, diﬀerent programmes can include additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. These academic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriate modiﬁcations/ improvements as and when necessary. 2. ACADEMIC SESSION Theacademicsessionnormallyruns fromtheendof Julyinoneyear tothemiddleofJulyinthe next year. Theacademicsessionis dividedintothreeparts:tworegularsemestersandasummer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excludingthedaysoftheexaminations,thetotalnumberofdaysofinstructioninasemesterisat least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, suchas orientation, registration, thecommencementofclasses,addinganddroppingof courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 3. REGISTRATION a. Registration:Studentsarerequiredtoregisterforprescribedcreditsaspertheprogramme,on the dates speciﬁed in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she/he can register by paying the ﬁne and register before the date of late registration. b. Provisional Registration: Afreshstudent joiningtheInstitute,whoisawaitingtheﬁnalresults of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionallyonsubmissionof acertiﬁcate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he has appeared in the ﬁnal examination of the qualifying degree. Thestudent is requiredtosubmit documents of havingpassedthequalifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. c. LateRegistration:Ifthestudentdoesnotregisterbythedateoflateregistrationasmentioned intheAcademicCalendar, he/shewill bederegistered. Theappeal againstderegistrationmaybe made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. The Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate ﬁne. d. Adding and Dropping of Courses: Astudent mayaddor dropcourse(s) withapproval of the Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. e. WithdrawingfromaCourse: After thelastdateofadd-drop,astudentwillhavetheoptionof withdrawingfromacourse.Thelastdateofcoursewithdrawalwillbetypicallywithinfourweeks fromthebeginningof theSemesterasspeciﬁedintheacademiccalendar.Thewithdrawncourse will be mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘W’. f. Cancellation of Semester Registration: Absencefor aperiodof four or moreweeks duringa semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from all the courses in that semester. g. Summer courseregistration: Adepartmentmayoﬀersummercoursestoenablethestudents to clear their backlog courses and/or regular credit courses. A course will run during summer provided a faculty member(s) is available for running the course. The course is oﬀered on approval of the Dean/ Associate Dean. 4. TEACHING AND EVALUATION4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. 4.1.2 Course Structure All courses haveassociatedcredits. Credits of acourseis basedonthenumberofcontacthours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals. A student on successful completion of the course witha passing grade will earn an equivalent number of credits. Based on the required academic maturitylevelofstudentsforattendingacourse,acourseisassignedalevel.Acoursecanconsist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are calledfractals. Acourseis identiﬁedbyauniquenumber. Followingtables deﬁneallparameters related to the course numbering scheme. Table 4.1Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1Descriptions OﬀeringDepartment/IDRP CourseType Level ofCourses Unique IdentiﬁcationNumber IndicatesFractal Categories See Table 4.2 SeeTable 4.3 See Table4.4 This code will be givencentrally by the oﬃce ofacademics 0: Regular1: Fractal 12: Fractal 23: Fractal 3Note:Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming 1-0-0 MEL7XX2Fractal 3: Robot Control 1-0-0 MEL7XX3 Table 4.2Departmental Code S. N. Type Department/Platform/OﬃceDepartment1 ME Mechanical Engineering2 CS Computer Science and Engineering3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering7 MT Metallurgical & Materials Engineering8 CY Chemistry9 MA Mathematics10 PH Physics11 HS Humanities and Social ScienceInterdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs)12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology14 IO Internet of Things and Applications15 RM Robotics and Mobility Systems16 QC Quantum Information and Computation17 SH Smart HealthcareSchools18 MS School of Management & Entrepreneurship 19 AI School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence & Data Science20 SL School of Liberal ArtsOthers21 OA Oﬃce of Academics 22 OS Oﬃce of Students Table 4.3Types for Courses S.N. CourseType Category 1 L Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practicalhours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.)2 P Practical / Practice based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily on the basisof practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3,0-1-3, etc.)3 D Project based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects)4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis6 Q Seminar Courses7 S Independent Study8 R Product Realization9 E Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded) Table 4.4Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S.N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=0)2 2003 300 B.Tech. (Cr>=38)4 400 B.Tech. (Cr>=75)5 500 PreparatoryCourses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes(NOTopen to B.Tech. and B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree) M.Tech. (Cr=0)M. Sc. (Cr=0)6 600 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=75)M.Sc. (Cr>=0)M.Tech. (Cr >= 0)7 700 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. (Cr>=85 withCGPA>=6*)M.Sc. (Cr >=30)M.Tech. (Cr>=0)Ph.D. (Cr>=0) Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 levelcourse should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. (Cr>=14) Ph.D. (Cr>=0) 4.1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Onlytheapproved courses may be oﬀered during any semester/summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses ThelistofcoursestobeoﬀeredinaProgramisﬁnalizedbeforethebeginningofthesemester,by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses oﬀered can be from one of the following categories: a) Regular course: Aregular coursehas14hoursofclassroomengagementpercredit.Aregularcoursecanbeunder elective or core/compulsory categories. Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimumof 10 students register for thecourse. A700or800levelelectivecoursecanrunwithaminimumof5registered students. A course not runningas aregular coursemaybeoﬀeredas aself-studycourseas per the following section. b) Self-study Course Aself-studycoursewillbefromthelistofcoursesapprovedbytheSenate.Themainfeaturesofa self-study course are as follows: ● A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course providedthat thecourseis not runninginthat semester as aregularcourseorastudent is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. ● Astudent mayalsobepermittedtoregister for acoreor programcompulsorycoursein self-studymodeprovidedhe/shehasfailedinitearlierandthecourseisnotbeingoﬀered as aregular courseduringthat semester orastudentisnotoncampusduringthecourse with prior approval of the competent authority. ● Students shouldapplyfor aself-studycoursewiththeappropriaterecommendationofa Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/interdisciplinary program committee. The ﬁnal sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics). ● Formal classroomengagement may not betherefor aself-studycoursebut laboratory, design and computationexercises will beconductedif theyformanintegral part of the course. ● The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester. ● Not exceeding 10% of the total graded credit can be opted as a self-study course. ● A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. c) Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interest under the supervision of afacultymember. Thetermindependent does not meannot involving aninstructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplineandhavingasenseof own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. A student havingCGPAmorethanor equal to6.0canopt for IndependentStudycourseswiththe recommendation of the Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study course are as follows: ● A student may be permitted to register for a topicof interest as anindependent-study coursenot exceeding3creditsinself-studymodeatmostonceduringtheprogram.Such an independent study coursewill becountedtowardopenelectiverequirements of the program and will appear with the title “Independent Study” on the transcript. ● Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC/DRC/interdisciplinary program committee.Theﬁnalsanctionofanindependent-studycoursetoastudentismadebythe Dean (Academics). ● Normally, noformal lectures willbeheldforanindependentstudy coursebutlaboratory, design and computationexercises will beconductedif theyformanintegral part of the course. ● The course will be arranged, planned and managed by a supervising professor. The CourseCoordinator conducts theassessment as per theevaluationnorms for theaward of letter grade at the end of the semester. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Eachcourseis conductedbytheinstructor withtheassistanceoftherequirednumberoftutors, as needed. The instructor is responsiblefor conductingthecourse, evaluatingtheperformance of students, awardingthegrades at theendof thesemester, andtransmittingthegradesasper Subsection 5.2. The student shall have access to his/her answer paper(s) of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown tohim/her bytheinstructor(s) concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either (i) direct contact (ii) synchronized remote contact (iii) guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will haveaface-to-facephysical interactionwith thestudents. Synchronizedremotecontact modewouldrequirethefacultyand/or thestudents tobeconcurrentlyconnectedtotheclass-roominteractionviaelectronicconferencinginvolving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours (typically 25%) of thestipulatedcontact hours. Inguided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up study of an approvedcourseviaself-learninganddiscussion-orientedcontactsessions.Thismodecanbealso adoptedforenablingastudenttotakeupstudyofanewcourse,notyetapprovedbythesenate, under supervisionof afaculty. All formal evaluationcomponentsapplicabletocoursesbeingrun through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory components of a course requiring use of a specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments Theinstructors andtutors for all courses tobeoﬀeredduringthesemester areallocatedbythe Headof theDepartment hostingtheProgram. WhenfacultymembersofotherDepartmentsare also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student mayaudit acourseinadditiontotheprescribedacademicloadrequirement withthe permission of Dean(Academics) ontherecommendations of theInstructor of thecoursebeing audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, thecoursewill belistedintheGrade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements Astudent shouldhavefull attendanceineachcourse. Unless thestudenttakesleaveofabsence for validreasons, thestudent hastoattendeverylecture,tutorial,orlabsession.Theattendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the student’s attendance falls below75%, the student will be allowedtoappear for theexams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75% will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. Thesestudents wouldbeawardedFgradeif their marks arelower thanthecut-oﬀforC grade in a course. 4.2 Evaluation Theperformanceof students inacourseis evaluatedcontinuously, usingtheirinteractioninthe classroom, andperformances inexaminations, thelaboratorywork(ifany),andterm-papersand projects. Theperformanceof students inacourseisevaluatedthroughexaminationsandonacontinuous basis. TheSenatewill decidefromtimetotimeonthesystemof tests andexaminationsineach subject in each semester. ● Minor 1, Minor2andMajorexaminationsaremandatorycomponentsoftheevaluationof a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and themajor examinationof 120minutes. Fractal courses (less than3credits) must have at least one examination. ● The total weightage of the examination component (three examinations for a14-week long course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure. ● Evaluation policy has to be known from the ﬁrst day of the class. ● The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in theclassroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. GRADING SYSTEM 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter gradeineachcoursebythe Instructor oﬀering the course considering theperformanceof thestudent duringthesemester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, EandFshall beawardedineachcourse. Eachletter gradeis associatedwithanumericalequivalentona10-pointscaleshowninTable5.1. Inaddition, therearefourspeciallettergrades,namely,I,S,XandU,whichstandforIncomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grades on the portal as per stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A* 10 Exceptional2 A 10 Outstanding3 A- 9 Excellent4 B 8 Very Good5 B- 7 Good6 C 6 Average7 C- 5 Below Average8 D 4 Marginal9 E 2 Poor10 F 0 Fail11 I Incomplete12 S Satisfactory in Course13 X Thesis Continuation14 U Unsatisfactory15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A* ‘A*’ grade has the same grade point as ‘A’ grade. The grade ‘A*’ indicates exceptionalperformance and is awarded only in the Course/(s) in which the number of registeredstudents is more than 50. It shouldnot exceed2%of thetotal strengthof theparticulartheory or lab course. The grade ‘A*’ is not awarded for projects /seminars. 2 E ‘E’ Gradewillbeawardedtoastudentwhohasscoredmarkslessthanthecutoﬀmarksfor‘D’ Gradeandhas met theattendancecriterionoftheinstitute.Studentswhoobtainan‘E’Gradewill beeligibletoappear inanadditionalexamination.Iftheyperformsatisfactorily,theybecomeeligibleforgettingthe‘E’gradeconvertedtoa‘D’Grade,otherwise,theywillcontinue to have ‘E’ Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for theadditional examination for an ‘E’ Grade. The additional examination will be conductedwithintheﬁrst weekof thenext semester.ThedateofadditionalexaminationofInstitutecore courses for undergraduate students will be centrally notiﬁed, while for all othercourses, the date would beannouncedbytherespectivecoursecoordinators. Astudentcanappear for amaximumof threesuchadditional tests inagivensemester.Ifastudentcannot appear for thetest duetoanyreason(s),he/shewillnotgetanyadditionalchance.If astudent with‘E’gradeinacoursedoesnotpassthecoursethroughtheadditionaltest,or obtains an‘F’ gradeinthecourse, he/shehas torepeat thecourseifitisacorecourse.Incasethecourseis anelective, thestudent maytakethesamecourseagainoranyothercourse. ‘E’ and‘F’ Grades arenot countedinthecalculationof theCGPA; however, theseare taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An‘I’ gradeis temporarilyawardedtoastudent onhis/her request todenoteincompleteperformance in a course on approval of an instructor. An‘I’ gradeis awardedincaseofmissing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other specialcircumstances. Requests for ‘I’ gradeshouldbemadeattheearliestbutnotlaterthanthelast dayof major tests. Allevaluationrequirementsforsuchstudentsinthecorrespondingcourse(s) should be completed on or before the last date of add and drop of coursesspeciﬁed in the academic calendar. Upon completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’grade is converted to a regular grade.4 S This gradeis awardedtoastudent withsatisfactoryperformanceinnon-gradedandAuditcourses or in a thesis after successful completion of the open seminar. The gradesobtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student in a course for continuation. 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit ornon-graded courses. 7 W This gradeis awardedtoastudent whohasoptedtowithdrawfromacourse.Withdrawalfrom a course is permitted until the date speciﬁed in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and time line would be as per Academic Calendar. 1. Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester 2. Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors3. Finalization of grades by Instructors 4. Grade moderation by department/institute level committee for department/institutewide courses 5. Recommendationof grades bytheHeadof theDepartment afterscrutinyofgradesbyadepartment moderation committee6. Display of grades by Instructors7. Gradecorrection,ifany,within48hoursofdisplayofgradesafterapprovaloftheheadofthe department8. Approval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PGs)9. Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG)/Associate Dean(UG/PG)10. Approval of results by the Chairman Senate11. Results onceapprovedcannot bechangedunder anycircumstance. Inexceptionalcases,an appeal may be made to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formaljustiﬁcation. 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all courses credited by her/him and reﬂects her/his academic performance in the respectivesemester. If thegradepoints associatedwiththelettergradesearnedbyastudentin Ncourses registeredduringasemester areG1 , G2 , …GN , andthecorrespondingcreditsC1 ,C2 ,… CN , then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtainedinall courses, except audit courses and courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall academic performance of a student inall thecourses registereduptothelatestcompletedsemester.TheCGPAiscomputed similarlyas theSGPA, consideringall thecourses inall semesters. TheCGPAis calculatedonthe basis of all pass grades (A*, A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D), except audit courses andcourses inwhichS/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation is based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. GRADE CARD AND TRANSCRIPT AGradeCardshall beissuedtoeachstudentattheendofeachsemester,andaTranscriptatthe end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits (without grades) earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS IN SPECIAL CASES The rules and regulations procedures andrequirements statedinthis manual, other thanthose related toAdmissions totheacademicprogrammes, maybewaivedinspecial circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 8. MAKE-UP EXAMINATIONS Astudent whohas missedminor(s) or themajor examinationduetogenuinereasonslikeillness etc. maybepermittedtowriteamake-upexaminationfor themissedcomponents.Thestudent should make an application to the Dean (Academics) through the course instructor withinten days from the date of the missed examination, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital duetoillness.Astudentneedstoproducethenecessarydocumentsubjecttooneofthe following categories: ● Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certiﬁcate issued by the Medical OﬃceroftheInstitutethathe/shewasadmittedintheHospitalduringtheperiod of the missed quiz/exam. ● Students residingintheHostelsandtakingmedicalconsultationwithoutsideDoctorsare required to obtain written permission fromtheMedical Oﬃcer of theInstituteHospital before they proceed for such consultation. ● Students residinginthehostels but takingmedicalconsultationwithoutsideDoctorsare requiredtoobtainanendorsement onthecertiﬁcateoftreatmentbytheMedicalOﬃcer of the Institute Hospital. ● Astudent stayingoutsidetheCampuspermanently/temporarilymustproduceamedical certiﬁcate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent/guardian. A slot- wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup / supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those whoarepermittedtotakethemake-upexamination.Astudentwhomissesthismake-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics maypermitthestudenttoappearformake-upexaminationanydaybeforetheendofthe ﬁrst week of the next semester. Under nocircumstances proratingcanbedonefor the missed examinations or attendance. REGULATIONS FOR PG PROGRAMME 9. POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently oﬀers the following Postgraduateprogrammes.1. Master of Science (M.Sc.) 2. Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech.3. Master of Technology (M.Tech.) 4. Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. 5. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) 10. POSTGRADUATE ADMISSIONSThe process of admission for all the programs oﬀered by the Institute normally is underwayduringApril-Mayfor Semester 1 andduringNovember-DecemberforSemester2.Inaddition,thedepartment mayprocess applications for admissionstoPhDprogramsonacontinuousbasisandadmit students as per the existing procedure. 10.1Categories of AdmissionA candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categoriesi. Full-time regularii. Full-time sponsorediii. Part-time iv. Externalv. Part-time (online)vi. Part-time (Project sponsored)vii. ExecutiveHowever, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can beoﬀered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time programs). i) Full-time RegularAn incampus student whocanregister for uptofull credit permissibleper semester. Astudentsupported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii) Full-time Sponsored An in campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. Thecandidate is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidatemusthave two years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience. iii) Part-timeApart-timestudentisaworkingprofessionalwho,whileemployed,attendsregularclassesasperscheduleof theInstitute. Thestudent must produceanNOCfromtheemployerforpursuingtheprogramme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits ascompared to a full-time regular student. iv) External Astudent workinginanindustry/R&Destablishment/academicinstitutionwhichisequippedwiththenecessaryresearchandlibraryfacilities. Theemployer mustrelievethestudenttostayinthecampus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v) Part-time (online)Apart-time(online) student is aworkingprofessional who, whileemployed, attends classesinasynchronous audio-visual mode as per the schedule of the Institute including limited contactsessions. The student is expected to register for alimitednumber of credits per semester. Thestudent will needtospendatleast12monthsinthecampusbeforesubmissionofthePh.Dthesisdistributed over the entire period of the programme as per the academic requirements. Thestudent must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpurcertifying that the employer will also provide access to resources for proper execution of theresearch work. vi) Part-time (Project sponsored)A part-time candidate is a project student receiving fellowship at least at the MoEstipulatedratebeingsupportedthroughresearchprojects runningintheinstitute.Thestudentcanregisteronlyfora limited number of credits as comparedtoafull-timeregular student. Thestudent is expectedtoreceivethefellowshipfor aminimumof 36months.Thestudentwillbepayingfeesatthesamerateas that of full timeGATEQualifiedcandidates. TheDepartment will process theapplicationsONLYifsuch a position is available in the respective M. Tech. program. vii) Executive (only for M. Tech.)A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in 1. An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR 2. Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in maximum of 6 years.3. Part-timeor full-timemodebyattendingcoursesoﬀeredinsynchronizedremotecontactmode and limited direct interaction 10.2 Eligibility for Admission a. The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments mayprescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate.a. The number of admissions that can be made to any programshall be decided by theSenate from time to time.b. Reservation of seats for various reservedcategories shall beprescribedbytheBoardofGovernors. 10.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular)The admission to the M.Sc. Programs oﬀered by the Institute will be through any one of thefollowing two avenues.a) Theapplicants qualiﬁedthroughtheJoint AdmissionTest forMaster(JAM)organizedbyIITs.b) Theapplicants havingabachelor’s degreeinanyrelevantdiscipline(3or4yearprogram)may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. Theapplicants under thecategory(b) must haveaminimumof60%marksforGEN/OBC (55%forSC/ST) categoryinaggregateor as speciﬁedbytheuniversity/instituteoraminimumCGPAof6.0for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportionalrequirements when the scales are other thanon10(for example4.8for GEN/OBCcategory4.4for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a ﬁrst class as speciﬁed by the university/institute. 10.2.2 Admission to M.Sc – M.Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular)The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs oﬀered by the Institute will bethrough any one of the following two avenues.a) Theapplicants qualiﬁedthroughtheJoint AdmissionTest forMaster(JAM)organizedbyIITs.b) Theapplicants havingabachelor’s degreeinanyrelevantdiscipline(3or4yearprogram)may be admitted based on written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.Theapplicants under thecategory(b) must haveaminimumof60%marksforGEN/OBC (55%forSC/ST) categoryinaggregateor as speciﬁedbytheuniversity/instituteoraminimumCGPAof6.0for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportionalrequirements when the scales are other thanon10(for example4.8for GEN/OBCcategory4.4for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a ﬁrst class as speciﬁed by the university/institute. 10.2.3 Admission to M.Tech Program (Regular) a) Theapplicant must havebachelor’s degreeinengineeringor science(4year program)oramaster’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences andVeterinary Sciences or in related ﬁeldb) Aminimumof 60%marksforGEN/OBC (55%forSC/ST)categoryinaggregateorasspeciﬁedbytheuniversity/instituteor aminimumCGPAof 6.0for GEN/OBC (5.5forSC/ST)categoryonthescaleof10;withcorrespondingproportionalrequirementswhenthescalesareotherthanon10(for example4.8for GEN/OBCcategory(4.4for SC/ST) onascaleof 8)oraﬁrstclass as speciﬁed by the university/institute.c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted fromGATEas per MHRDcircular or havequaliﬁedanequivalentNationalExaminationorhavequaliﬁedinthewrittentest and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 10.2.4 Admission to MTech Program (Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored)a) Theapplicant must havebachelor’s degreeinengineeringor science(4year program)oramaster’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science andVeterinary Science or in related ﬁelds.b) Aminimumof 60%marks for GEN/OBC(55%forSC/ST)categoryinaggregateorasspeciﬁedbytheuniversity/instituteor aminimumCGPAof 6.0for GEN/OBC (5.5forSC/ST)categoryonthescaleof10;withcorrespondingproportionalrequirementswhenthescalesareotherthanon10(for example4.8for GEN/OBCcategory(4.4for SC/ST) onascaleof 8)oraﬁrstclass as speciﬁed by the university/institute.c) Theapplicant must haveaminimumoftwoyearsworkexperience(afterqualifyingdegree)in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to theprogram. However, the credit accumulation for the programmay start immediately afterthe qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration.d) The applicant must qualify written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 10.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular)a) Theapplicant must havebachelor’s degreeinengineeringor science(4year program)oramaster’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science andVeterinary Science or in related ﬁeldb) Aminimumof 60%marksforGEN/OBC (55%forSC/ST)categoryinaggregateorasspeciﬁedbytheuniversity/instituteor aminimumCGPAof 6.0for GEN/OBC (5.5forSC/ST)categoryonthescaleof10;withcorrespondingproportionalrequirementswhenthescalesareotherthan on 10(for example4.8for GEN/OBCcategory4.4for SC/ST) onascaleof 8) or aﬁrstclass as speciﬁed by the university/institute.c) The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted fromGATEas per MHRDcircular or havequaliﬁedanequivalentNationalExaminationorhavequaliﬁedinthewrittentest and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 10.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular)a) Candidates admittedinthiscategoryshallnotbearegisteredstudentinanyotheracademicprogram in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of anyorganization in India or abroad. b) The applicant must have amaster’s degreeinengineering, pharmacy, agricultural science,science, humanities, social sciences, management withat least 60%marks oratleast6.0/10CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), ORc) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPThwithMPTh, BOThwithMOThor equivalent withatleast60%marksoratleast6.0/10CPIorCGPAfor GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree,ORd) Theapplicant must haveabachelor’s degreeof minimumfouryeardurationinengineeringor science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science orequivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% forSC/ST) . 10.2.7AdmissionunderanyspecialschemelikeQualityImprovementProgramme(QIP),Defence Personnel Theprocedures andcriteriafor admissionof thesecandidates canbedecidedwiththeapprovalof Chairman, Senate. 10.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals INRAcandidates musthavebeenresidingabroadcontinuouslyforatleastoneyearatthetimeofapplying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as andwhen they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. Theapplications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualiﬁcations andattainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category.Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of CulturalRelations (ICCR) will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitabilityforadmissiontotheprogramme.Thedepartment'srecommendationwillbesenttotheChairperson,Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 10.2.9 Admission to Ph.D. (sponsored/external/part-time)a) Candidates admittedinthiscategoryshallnotbearegisteredstudentinanyotheracademicprogram in India or abroad. b) The applicant must have amaster’s degreeinengineering, pharmacy, agricultural science,science, humanities, social sciences, management withat least 60%marks oratleast6.0/10CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST), ORc) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPThwithMPTh, BOThwithMOThor equivalent withatleast60%marksoratleast6.0/10CPIorCGPAfor GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor’s degree,ORd) Theapplicant must haveabachelor’s degreeof minimumfouryeardurationinengineeringor science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science orequivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% forSC/ST) .e) Theapplicant must haveaminimumoftwoyearsworkexperience(afterqualifyingdegree)in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to theprogram. f) The applicant must qualify written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 10.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute oruniversity in India or abroad, and who is oﬃcially sponsored by that institute or university tocompletepart ofhis/heracademicrequirementsatIITJodhpur.Forthatpurpose,thenon-degreestudent may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use otheracademic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for speciﬁccourses providedthecandidatesatisﬁes theminimumeligibilitycriteriaspeciﬁedinSection10.2. Theapplicationmust beroutedthroughtheoﬃceof DeanR&D. Acasual student canregister uptoamaximumof9creditsinasemester. On successful completion of the course, students will be awarded with a CourseCompletion Certiﬁcate and Grade obtained. A casual student can also accumulate credits topetition for a certiﬁcate or a diploma from IIT Jodhpur. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 10.4 Reservation PolicyThe reservation policy of the Government of India will be followed. 11. PG REGISTRATION 11.1 Limits on Registration Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in diﬀerent programs: ● M.Sc.: A M.Sc. student can register for a maximumof 24 credits and aminimumof 10credits in a semester. ● M.Tech.: A M.Tech. student canregister for maximumandminimumcredits as per Table11.1. Table 11.1 MaximumandMinimumCredits aM.Tech. student canregister for duringtheRegularsemester/Summer Term :M.Tech. student registered under diﬀerentcategories Indicative MaximumCredits MinimumCreditsRegularSemester Executive (Accelerated) 24 10Executive (Normal) 17 10Executive (Slow-Paced) 12 3Executive (Part Time) 12 3Full-time (Regular/Sponsored) 17 10External 20 10Part-time 12 3Summer Term Executive (Accelerated) 16 0Executive (Normal) 9 0Executive (Slow-Paced) 6 0Full-time (Regular) 9 5Full-time (Sponsored) 9 0 External 9 0Part-time 6 0 ● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/Direct Ph.D. (Joining after B.Tech.) - The maximum andminimumcredits that a M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree/direct Ph.D. student canregister areequivalent to that of a M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student. ● Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 11.2. Table 11.2 Maximumand MinimumCredits a Ph.D. student can register for during the Regularsemester Ph.D. student registered under diﬀerentcategories IndicativeMaximum Credits(before qualiﬁer) IndicativeMaximum Credits(after qualiﬁer) MinimumCredits Full-time Regular 16 16 6External 16 12 6Part-Time 12 12 3 11.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA)A student admitted to a M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum creditrequirement of the ﬁrst semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing anyprofessional activity, byoptingforRKAinsubsequentsemesters.Thecandidatemustindicatehisintent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean (academic). Thecandidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. 11.2ChangeofRegistrationfromM.Tech.(Regular)ProgrammetoM.Tech.(Part-time)Programme A full-time regular M.Tech. student may be allowed tochangetheregistrationtothepart-timeM.Tech. programme after successful completionof thirdsemester. Astudent requestingsuchaconversion must:i) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC; andii) produce a "No Objection" Certiﬁcate from his/her employer for carrying out theresearch work 11.3Changeof RegistrationfromM.Tech.Programmeto M.Tech.-Ph.D.dualdegreeProgramme A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8or moreat theendofsecondsemester maybeallowedtoswitchtoM.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degreeprogramtill theendofthirdsemester. As aspecialcase,astudentcanswitchtodualdegreeinthefourthsemesterwiththeapproval of DRC, providedhis/her CGPAis 8or more, whowill thenberequiredtocompletehis/her candidacy requirements by the end of ﬁfth semester. All conditionsoftheM.Tech.-Ph.D.dualdegreeprogramwillbeapplicabletoallsuchstudents.Allsuch changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 11.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. ProgramApart-timeM.Tech.studenthavingCGPA8ormoreaftercompletionofatleast24creditsmaybeallowedtochangehis/her registrationtothePh.D. program. Thecredits earnedwill becountedtowards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements. 11.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time/External Ph.D. Programme A student admitted toafull-timePh.D. programmemaybepermittedtochangetoapart-timePh.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: i) have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement;ii) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC; iii) produce a "No Objection" Certiﬁcate from his/her employer for carrying out theresearch work. 11.5 Maximum Duration of a Program● M.Sc.- 8 registered semester● M.Tech.(RegularandPart-time/External/Executive)- 12 registeredsemesterswhichmay include maximum6semesters of Registrationkept Alive(RKA) after completionofthe ﬁrst semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be the same as that of sponsored candidates. ● Ph.D.andM.Tech.-Ph.D.dualdegree(RegularandPart-time/External)- 14 registeredsemesters whichmayincludemaximum6semestersofRegistrationkeptAlive(RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuitionfeepost RKAwill bethesameasthat of sponsored candidates. ● Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC. 11.6 Course RegistrationStudents will be eligible to register for courses as per thecriterionspeciﬁedinSection11.1 andTable 4.4. The DRC/ IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course duringher/his Masters or Bachelors program. 12. ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS12.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PGProgrammesThetotal credits for acourseiscalculatedbytakingintoaccountthenumberoflectures,tutorial,and practical hours (L-T-P) assigned as given in Table 12.1 and 12.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D.programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and theexpected number of self-learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for eachcontact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 12.1LTP-structure and credit assignment forM.Sc.Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours # Total Credits (TC=TH/3)Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH)1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 2 3 11 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 2 3 11 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 0.5 1.5 0.51 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 2 3 1#Contact hour for a project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,etc. Table 12.2LTP-structure and credit assignment forM.Tech./Ph.D.Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contactHours # Total Credits(TC=TH/4)Contact Hours (CH) Beyond ContactHours (BCH) TotalHours(TH)1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 11 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 11 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.51 hour of Project# 0-0-1 1 3 4 11 hour of Thesis(Ph.D.) 0-0-1 1 3 4 1 #Contact hour for a project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,etc. 12.2 Course categories for Masters’ programmes1) Compulsory Course (MC)2) Programme Compulsory (PC)2) Programme Elective (ME)3) Open Elective (MO/OE)4) Specialization Core (SC)5) Specialization Elective (SE)6) Specialization Stream Electives (SSE)7) Micro Specialization Core (MSC)8) Project works (MP)9) Non-graded (NG) 12.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 12.3. Table 12.3Programs/ Credits to be earned for MScstudents Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. (Chemistry) 38 18 06 15 77 M.Sc. (Mathematics) 38 18 06 15 77 M.Sc. (Physics) 38 18 06 15 77 M.Sc. (Digital Humanities) 37 18 06 15 76 Program Minimum Credits to be earned PC SE/SC OE MP Total M.Sc. (Computational Social Science) 37 18 6 15 76 12.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students/ Executive M.Tech. Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 12.4. Table 12.4Minimum Credits to be earned For MTechstudents Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Thermoﬂuids Engineering) 17 17 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)19 15 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Materials Engineering) 16 18 06 16 4 60 M.Tech (Artiﬁcial Intelligence) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 06 16 4 62 M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 06 16 4 61 M.Tech (Chemical Engineering) 17 17 6 16 4 60 M.Tech (Intelligent VLSI Systems) 20 16 6 16 4 62 Programs Minimum Credits to be earned PC SSE ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Infrastructure Engineering with Specialization in Environmental Engineering) 3 17 17 3 16 4 60 M.Tech (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with Major in Energy) 3 17 17 3 16 4 60 Program Minimum Credits to be earned MC MSC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech (Robotics and Mobility Systems) 18 9 7 6 16 4 60 12.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree Minimumcreditrequirementsfor M.Sc.-M.Tech.DualDegreeis cumulativesumof credit requirementsforrespectiveM.Sc.programandM.Tech.programasmentionedinSections12.3 and 12.4. M.Tech (Data and Computational Sciences) 20 15 06 16 4 61 M.Tech (Intelligent Communication Systems) 20 16 6 16 4 6 2 M.Tech (Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality) 19 15 6 16 4 60 12.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree CoursecategoriesandacademicrequirementsforMTech- PhDdualdegreestudentsaregiven below in Table 12.5. Table 12.5Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degreeMTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total Programs Minimum Credits to be earned PC SSE ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Infrastructure Engineering with Specialization in Environmental Engineering) M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with Major in Energy) TheDRC/IRCmustoverseethatthestudenthasnotregisteredfora similarcourseduring Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses. 12.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students The minimum credits to be earned through courses, is listed in Table 12.6. Table 12.6Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1. Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 24 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an Engineering discipline 24 48 2. Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 12 48 3 17 17 03 20 4 6 4 3 17 17 03 20 4 6 4 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things) 19 17 03 20 4 63 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Cyber Physical System) 18 18 03 20 4 63 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Communication and Signal Processing) 17 17 03 20 4 61 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Thermoﬂuids Engineering) 17 17 03 20 4 61 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Materials Engineering) 16 18 03 20 4 61 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Computer Science and Engineering) 18 18 03 20 4 63 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Artiﬁcial Intelligence) 18 18 03 20 4 63 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Bioscience and Bioengineering) 18 17 03 20 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Intelligent Communication Systems) 20 16 03 20 4 6 3 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Advanced Manufacturing) 19 15 03 20 4 61 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Mechanical Design) 19 15 03 20 4 61 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Data and Computational Sciences) 20 15 03 20 4 62 M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Chemical Engineering) 17 17 03 20 4 61 Theindicativemaximumcredits,astudentregistersinasemester,arenotional. Inadditiontotheabove minimumcredit requirements through coursework, Ph. D. students arefurther requiredtocomplete four compulsory non-graded (NG) courses before the open seminar. A student alreadycompleted a NG course as part of his/her program need not register for the same course again. The coursework requirements for IDRP Ph.D. students will be in line with Table 12.6. Whilesecuringtheminimumoverall CGPArequirement in12(Ph.D.indepartmentaldomains)/24(Ph.D. in IDRP domains with M.Sc. degree in aSciencediscipline/direct Ph.D.) earnedcredits, acourse repeat process may be allowed for a maximum of 4 credits for Ph.D. students indepartmental domains and 8 credits for Ph.D. students inIDRPdomains withM.Sc. degreeinaScience discipline or for students enrolled in direct Ph.D. programme. The student can repeatcourse(s) within the said credit limit in whichhehas obtainedapass gradebut performanceispoor (secured grade is B- or lower). No replacement of course(s) in which the student hassecuredpass gradeandaboveis allowed. If thestudent opts torepeat acourse,thenthegradesecured in the next attempt will prevail. 12.8 Academic Performance Requirements12.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a programThe minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is givenbelow in Table 12.7. Table 12.7Minimum CGPA requirements Sr.No. Program Continuation in Programme(SGPA) For graduation 1 M.Sc. (only graduationrequirement) Refer 12.8.2 5.0 2 M.Tech. 5.0 5.03 Dual Degree (M.Sc. andM.Tech.) 5.0 5.0 4 Dual Degree (M.Tech. andPh.D.) 6.5 (For ﬁrst semester >=6) 7.0 5 Ph.D. 6.5 (For ﬁrst semester >=6) 7.5 at completion of coursework 12.8.2 Degree Grade Point Average (DGPA) for Ph.D. students APhDstudent whohas completedthecredit requirements for thecourseworkbut has aCGPAless than 7.5 (required for graduation) will be evaluated using Degree Grade Point Average(DGPA) whereDGPAis deﬁnedwithrespect tothebestperformanceofthestudentinminimumnumber of credits. 12.8.3 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.-The student must earn at least 20 credits atthe end of second semester for continuation inthe program. 12.8.4 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/FellowshipThe minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship is given in belowTable 12.8 Table 12.8Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuationof Assistantship/FellowshipSr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/Fellowship1 M.Tech. 6.02 Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.) 6.53 Ph.D. 6.5 13. LEAVE RULESApplicationfor leaveofabsenceshouldbeaddressedtotheConvenerDRC,andsubmittedwithamedical certiﬁcate, if applicable. Usually, leavemust not beavailedof without prior approval ofthe DRC. 13.1 LeaveAmaximumof 30days inanacademicyear (includingleaveonmedical grounds +midsemesterbreak). The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer/winter termormid-semester break.A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretchThe leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRCwithout assistantship during that period. 13.2 Other LeavesMaternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MoE. It will not becounted towards maximum permissible duration of the programme.Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MoE. 13.3 Semester Withdrawal May be applicable in unforeseencircumstances or for medical reasons. Absencefor aperiodoffour or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester.Inall suchcases, thefellowshipwillbestoppedwithimmediateeﬀectanditwillbecontinuedforonly after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve andintimateOﬃceof Academicsregardingtheleaveof thestudent for records. Incase, theleaveextends beyondasemester, itcan only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on medicalground will not be counted towards maximumpermissible duration of theprogrammefor thestudent. 13.4 Academic Leave Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as1. Field work 2. Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library3. Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ4. Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium 5. Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision6. Collaborative work for a speciﬁc problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme asindicated in his research proposal7. Exchange program – as part of an exchange programwith sister institution in India orabroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave isgranted. SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowshipduring academic leave.● A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave.● A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester ascertiﬁed by SRC and approved by DRC. 14. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCEFinancial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admittedunder regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 14.1 M.Sc. ProgramMerit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms. 14.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program A student having completed minimum credit requirements of a M.Sc. programat the end ofsecond year with a. CGPA>=8 OR b. have qualiﬁed GATE can have ﬁnancial support from MHRD or project fund. 14.3 M.Tech. ProgramA regular M.Tech. student with GATE can haveﬁnancial support fromMHRDor project fund. Astudent may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 14.4 Executive M Tech Program Students admitted in this category will not be provided any ﬁnancial assistance from theInstitute. 14.5 M.Tech. – Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Rules andregulations governingﬁnancial assistancefor dual degreestudents will beatparwithregular Ph.D. students. 14.6 Ph.D. ProgramAregular Ph.D. student admittedtotheInstitutewillbeeligibleforﬁnancialassistanceasperthenorms of IIT Jodhpur. a. A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master's degree withGATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have ﬁnancial assistance as per MHRD norms.b. The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech. or equivalentpost-Bachelor’s degree c. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement inthescholarshipafter twoyears providedthe student has met the qualiﬁer requirement. Enhanced fellowship will commence fromthedateof completionofboththeconditions.Noarrearswillbeprovidedduetodelayincompletingthe qualiﬁer requirement. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the aboverequirements.TheTeaching/ResearchAssistantshipof aPh.D. student willcontinuetillthesisDefenseorendofthesemester inwhichhe/shehas submittedthesis, whicheverisearlier.Theaboveispermissiblesubject to assistantship/fellowship available in the semester under question as perMHRD/CSIR/DST/UGC rule. 15. RULES AND REGULATION FOR CONDUCT AND EVALUATION OFM.TECH./M.SC. PROJECT ● Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of thestudents and supervisor(s).● The supervisor and area identiﬁcation must be completed by the end of the ﬁrstsemester.● Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to regularsupervisor(s). ● Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committeeconsistingof DRC, supervisor(s) andtwomembers conversant withtheﬁeldofresearchwithat least one-memberexternaltothedepartment(maybeoutsidetheInstitutealso).DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. Same committee mayexaminemorethanonethesis. Theexternal member canbeonVC. DRCwillensurethatthe Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. ● A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summersemester following2 nd semester. Hemust obtainasatisfactorygradetocontinueM.Techproject part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will beevaluated by his supervisor. 16. RULES AND REGULATIONS FORPH. D. /M. TECH.-PH. D. DUAL DEGREEPROGRAM 16.1 Thesis Supervisor(s)16.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. CandidatesThe selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research.Thereshouldat least beafacultymember availableorlikelytojoinintheareasofinterestofthecandidate at the time of selection. 16.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s)● Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall beassigned at the time of selection. ● Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of thestudents and supervisor(s). ● For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. - Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identiﬁcationmust be completed by the end of the ﬁrst semester.● The Convener, DRC (Department Research and Postgraduate Committee)/Coordinator,IRC (Interdisciplinary Research Program Committee) would advise until the student isassigned to regular supervisor(s). ● There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additionalsupervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate.● A supervisor from outside the institute, before qualiﬁer, may be appointed on therequest of student/supervisor(s) withtherecommendationof theDRC/IRCandtheDean(Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate. ● The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) andNon-DisclosureAgreement (NDA) documents as apart of acceptance.Fromtheﬁnancialpoint of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 16.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor● Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, theDRC/IRCshall appoint acaretaker supervisor inconsultationwiththesupervisor andthestudent to take care of the administrative requirements.● Whenever thesupervisor proceeds onlongleavefor aperiodmorethanayear, thenanadditional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor.● The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and thesupervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. ● The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as supervisor andwill havetooptforanadditionalsupervisorprovidedthestudenthasclearedthequaliﬁerbefore supervisor’s retirement/resignation. 16.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee (DRC)TheDRCwill consist of coordinatorsofM.Tech,M.Tech.-Ph.D.dualdegreeandPh.D.programsofthedepartment, headof theDepartment andSenior Professor/AssociateProfessorproposedbytheHead. TheDRCwill beChairedbyaProfessor/AssociateProfessor nominatedbytheHeadofthe Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of theAcademicCommittee. TheDRC has to be approved by the Dean (Academics). Ph.D. program coordinator will be theconvenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 16.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) TheIRCwill consist of all coordinators of IDRPs andSenior Professor/AssociateProfessor asthechairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be amember of AC. Oneof theIDRPco-ordinators wouldbeconvenor of thecommittee.Thetenurefor the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 16.2 Change of Research SupervisorChange of supervisor(s) under exceptional circumstances shall be permitted by Dean(Academics) on recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the student (ii) the present supervisor(s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required, realignment of student’s research program will happen under supervision of theDRC/IRC. 16.3 Student Research Committee (SRC) 16.3.1 Composition of SRC ● The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty membersconversant with the ﬁeld of research with at least one-member external to thedepartment (may be outside the Institute also). ● A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by thesupervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by the Dean (Academics). ● The SRC shall haveonemember identiﬁedas Chairmanfor administrativefunctions andthe supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean(Academics).● The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the ﬁrst semester.● Any subsequent changes in thecompositionof SRCshallbecommunicatedthroughthe DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record. ● The SRC and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of thethesis.● The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until thecompletion of the program. 16.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM)Academicprogress ofallregisteredPh.D.studentswillbereviewedonceinayearbytheSRCandpeers intheinstitute. Thereviewwill bebasedupon(i) AnnualProgressReportand(ii)APosterPresentation open toall. SRCwill awardSatisfactory/Non-Satisfactorygradebasedupon(i) and(ii). Two consecutive non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, the academic calendar must indicatetwodays inayear forconductingannual progressevaluationofresearchscholars.Followinggroupingsofstudentsandscheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: APM must be conducted by the Last WorkingDate of September of every year2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: APM must be conducted by the Last WorkingDate of February of every year The ﬁrst APMwill be conducted after successful completion of qualiﬁer requirements. Thosestudents who have got 6 months extension tocompletequaliﬁer requirements, for themAPMcan be scheduled even after a semester from the date of completion of qualiﬁerrequirements. Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will bereported by supervisor(s) through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee andapproved by Dean (academics) 16.5 Qualiﬁer requirements of Ph.D. StudentThefollowingfour components together will constitutequaliﬁer (candidacy) requirements foraPh. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship.1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA speciﬁed in Section 12.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen ﬁeld of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected tocompletesuccessfullytheQualiﬁer requirementsbeforethebeginningof theﬁfthsemesterofhis/herregistrationinthePh.D.programandinanycase not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D.program. Part-time and direct Ph.D. candidates will need to complete qualiﬁer requirementsbefore the beginning of the seventh semester. M.Tech.-Ph.D. candidates will needtocompletequaliﬁer requirements beforethebeginningof theﬁfthsemester andinanycasenot later thanthebeginningofthesixthsemesteraftertheirregistrationintheprogram.ForM.Tech.-Ph.D.dualdegreestudents, the16credits associatedwiththeM.Tech. project II aretobeconvertedtotheRP. 16.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student● The comprehensive examination must be designed to test thegeneral capabilityof thestudent and the breadth of his/her knowledgeinthedisciplineandareas relatedtotheﬁeld of research. ● The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive ExaminationCommittee of the Department/IDRP.● The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers.● Departments will oﬀer at least 5Papers for conductingthecomprehensiveexamination.Eachpaper will havebroadcoverageofoneessentialsub-areaofthedepartment.Coursecontent of these papers will be approved by the academic committeeandSenate. Thesyllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the sameas coursesoﬀeredbythedepartment; it must bedesignedtotest thebreadthof theknowledgeinthat area.● TheSRCwill specifyasetofthreepapersascomprehensiverequirementsforaparticularstudent. These three papers may be selected from across the departments.● The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. studentwithintwo weeksof SRC formation. ● All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two ﬁxed days in a year. It cancoincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students maydecide to appear for three papers on the same day or on diﬀerent days. ● A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completedthe course requirements and satisﬁed the minimum speciﬁed CGPA requirement.● If theperformanceofthePh.D.studentinacomprehensiveexaminationpaperintheﬁrstattempt is not satisfactory, he/shewill begivenonemoreopportunitytoappear duringthe next scheduled comprehensive examinationas per theacademiccalendar. For validmedical or unforeseenreasons, if astudent is not abletoregisterforthecomprehensiveexamination, the comprehensive examinationmayberescheduledwithinthat semesterwith prior approval to the Dean/Associate Dean (PG- Programs).● For clearingthecomprehensiveexamination, astudent must performsatisfactorilyinallpapers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students:● Ph.D.: within 3 semesters● Direct Ph.D. and Part-Time Ph.D.: within 5 semesters 16.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) EveryPh.D. student is requiredtogiveageneralseminarintheDepartmentcoveringtheStateofArt of the area of research. Thepresentationmust alsoincludepatent landscapingof thearea.The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade inSOTAawardedbySRCforbecomingeligibletopresenthisresearchproposal.TheStateoftheArtseminar must be completed before ﬁnalization of the research proposal. For M.Tech.-Ph.D.students, the presentation in M.Tech. Project I will be considered as SOTA. 16.5.3 Research ProposalResearch proposal (report +presentation) will beevaluatedbySRCafter successful completionof SOTA. The Research proposal must include representative research work equivalent toresearchworkworth16credits. SRCwill allocatealettergradebasedontheperformanceofthecandidate. 16.6 Candidacy for the Ph.D. DegreeA student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D.degreeafter he/shehas completedthequaliﬁerrequirementsforthedegree.Onlysuchstudentswho are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. The time-lines for comprehensive examination, state of the art seminar and candidacyexamination are summarized in Table 12.9 .Table 12.9 Timelines for comprehensive examination, state of the art seminar and candidacyexaminationSr. No. Ph.D. (Regular) Ph.D. (Part-time) Ph.D. (Direct) M.Tech.-Ph.D. ComprehensiveExamination 3 Semesters 5 Semesters 5 Semesters 3 Semesters State-of-the-ArtSeminar 3 Semesters 5 Semesters 5 Semesters 3 Semesters CandidacyExamination 4 Semesters 6 Semesters 6 Semesters 4 Semesters 16.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program● M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualiﬁerrequirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years canalsoconvert into part-time/external Ph.D. students and exit with M.Tech degree if allconditions for part-time/external conversion are satisﬁed.● The renewal of their registrationfor everysemester however, will beconsideredonlyifSRC ﬁnds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends continuance of registration. 16.8 Cancellation of Registration● TheregistrationofastudentwhoseprogressisnotfoundtobesatisfactorybytheSRCorwho has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation.● Theregistrationof astudent whohas not submittedhis/her thesis beforetheendofthemaximum permissible period speciﬁed in Section 11.5 will be liable for cancellation. 16.9 Synopsis● Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal close doorassessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC.● The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisﬁed about the quality andquantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis.● Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsisreport.● Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within sixmonths of theopenseminardate. If required, anextensionof threemonths maybepermittedbyDean(Academics)on the recommendation of SRC.● If the synopsis and thesis are not submittedinthespeciﬁedperiod, thestudent will beasked to present the synopsis again.● On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimumCGPA speciﬁed in4.6.1, thecomprehensiveexamination,theSOTA,theresearchworkandthesynopsis,thestudent shall submit therequisitecopies of thesynopsis of his/her researchworkintherequired format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section forconsideration of the SRC.● The student should have at least twopublications inScopus indexedjournals and/or A+conferences for Engineering and Science Departments. Requirements for theDepartment of Humanities and School of Management & Entrepreneurship will bespeciﬁed separately. 16.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation Thesupervisor(s) shall proposealist of 10examinersconsistingofatleastfourFacultyMembersfromabroadand4FacultyMembers fromIndia, whohavetheexpertiseintheareainwhichthestudent undertook research. For selecting an examiner, following guidelines should be followed● The examiners shall have at least 6 years Post-Ph.D. experience;● No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and● The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. ● Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners.● The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimumtwo examiners fromthe proposed list, ofwhich at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of theseexaminers shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, the SRC andSupervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis.● The Indian examiners shall attend in person the Thesis Defense.● Theexaminers shall submit awrittenreport ontheThesiswithinaperiodoftwomonthsfrom the date of receipt of the Thesis.● If both examiners declaretheThesis as acceptablefor awardof Ph.D. degree, theDean(Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. ● If any of the examiners rejects the Thesis for the award of thePh.D. degree, theDean(Academics) shall report the matter to theChairman, Senate, for further consideration.The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under specialcircumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D.program.● If bothexaminers reject theThesis for theawardof thePh.D.degree,nodegreeshallbeawardedbytheInstitute, andtheregistrationof thestudent shall standcancelledinthePh.D. program. ● If anexaminer suggests revisionof theThesis,thestudentshallresubmittheThesisafterthe revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with theSupervisor(s). ● Whenbothexaminers recommendtheThesis as acceptedfor thestudent todefendtheThesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating thesuggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present theThesis and defend the contention of the Thesis.● ThecommitteeconsistingofChairmanSRC,Supervisor(s),theExaminerfromwithinIndiaand other FacultyMembers, whoparticipatedintheComprehensiveExaminationof thestudent, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On theirrecommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to the Senate, to consider theaward of Ph.D. degree to the student. 17. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS A student is deemedtohavecompletedtherequirements for graduation, if she/hehas met therequirements laid down in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4 below.17.1 Minimum Residential Requirement Table 17.1Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualiﬁcations at the time of joining theProgram Minimum Duration (insemesters) of Residence 1. M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 42. M.Sc.-M.Tech. DualDegree All qualifying degrees 7 3. M.Tech. ProgramsFull-time Regular/Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3 Part-time/ Part-timeExecutive All qualifying degrees 0 Executive All qualifying degrees 14. Ph. D. ProgramsEngineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in anEngineering discipline 2 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in anEngineering discipline 5 Science, Humanities orSocial Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in aScience, Humanities or Social Sciencediscipline 2 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0External All qualifying degrees 1 17.2 Academic The student shall be declared to have fulﬁlled the academicrequirements if she/hehas earnedthe minimumcredits as per Section12.3for M. Sc., Section12.4for M. Tech., Section12.5for M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 12.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 12.7 for Ph.D.,while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 12.8. 17.3 No Dues ClearanceThe degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance fromall concernedsections asdeemed necessary by Dean (Academics). 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action ThestudentshallnotbeconsideredtohavecompletedtheAcademicRequirementsifthere is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 17.5 Award of Degrees 17.5.1 Provisional CertiﬁcateAstudent, whocompletesallthegraduationrequirementsspeciﬁedinClauses17.1to17.4,canbeprovidedaprovisional certiﬁcatebytheoﬃceofDean(Academics)ontheapprovalofChairman,Senate. 17.5.2 Degree CertiﬁcateA student, who completes all the graduation requirements speciﬁed in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, isrecommendedbytheSenatetotheBoardof Governors (BOG) for theawardoftheappropriatedegree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can beawardedonlyafter theBOGaccords itsapproval. 17.6 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduationrequirements is detectedat alaterstage,theSenatemayrecommendtotheBoardofGovernorsfor withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 18. AMENDMENTSNotwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves theright tomodify/amend, without notice, Rules andRegulations of thePostgraduateprogrammesat IIT-Jodhpur.

1 Annexure-I Regulations for IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs (Masters-PhD Dual Degree and PhD) in Medical Technologies Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur 2 Appointment of Supervisor: • Any faculty member at AIIMS/IIT Jodhpur holding fulltime position can be designated as Supervisor. • Faculty members of IIT and AIIMS can supervise Ph.D. students as per the regulations of respective institute. • The faculty member who himself/herself is registered for Ph.D. programme will not be eligible for the supervision of Ph.D. • There will be at -least one supervisor each from both AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur. A maximum of three supervisors are allowed. • External supervisor with at least two years of post-graduate teaching experience/2 years post PhD research experience as medical/non -medical researcher/scientist/faculty member may be appointed as supervisor provided he/she has original/significant research contribution in the field. 1. Qualifier Requirement and plan for thesis work For the dual degree: Step 1: After 1st semester- The candidate h as to identify the need from immersion+ problem definition emphasizing scope for innovation and development Step 2: After 4th Semester and by 5th Semester- SOTA seminar + detailed presentation on scientific challenges and innovation model of the identified problem Step 3: After 6th Semester and by 7th Semester Present translation agenda and/or business plan Step 4: After 7th Semester To take a call while presenting, whether to opt for degree with translational component/ product development OR Opt for incubation with a business plan For Ph.D. degree: • Step 1: After 1st Semester • The candidate has to identify the need from immersion+ problem definition emphasizing scope for innovation and development • Step 2: By end of 2nd Semester • Present foundation of the identified problem of product development • Step 3: By end of 3rd Semester • Present SOTA seminar 3 • Step 4: By end of 4th Semester • Present complete plan for translation/prototyping the device • Step 5: By end of 7th Semester • To take a call while presenting, whether to opt for degree with translational component /product development OR • Opt for incubation with a business plan Assessment of the work of the candidates • Annual progress work during the thesis work shall be assessed by the Doctoral committee and a report will be submitted to the Dean through the supervisor. • The doctoral committee will be formed after 1st Semester and before end of second semester Thesis and examination • The thesis will be submitted after an open seminar presented by the candidate and the approval of the Doctoral committee. • At least two patents (or equivalent IP right document) filed is essential for submitting the thesis. • Each candidate shall submit four print copies and pdf format of the thesis duly certified by the Supervisor and the Co-Supervisor(s) for evaluation after completion of the required period. • A panel of examiners shall be submitted before the expected date of submission of the thesis, by t he supervisor, in consultation with the Doctoral committee. The panel shall include eight examiners who are experts in the field of the study undertaken by the candidate (three of these shall be from abroad). • The supervisors may go for the consent of the examiners before proposing the names in the examiner list. • In the thesis evaluation form, the points of judgment of the thesis can be the novelty/contribution of the product development/translation • After approval of thesis by the external and the internal examiners the viva voce examination will be held to adjudge the proficiency of the candidate in the subject(s) allied to the candidate’s field of work. • If the thesis is rejected by more than one examiner, it will stand rejected and shall not be referred to any other examiner. However, in the event the thesis is rejected by only one examiner, it will be referred to another examiner from among the approved panel. In case the thesis is approved by this examiner, it will be considered as unanimously approved, e lse the respective Chairman, Senate may advise course of action. 4 • If one or more examiner recommends re -submission/modification of thesis, the same shall be done within a maximum period of six months from the date of intimation to the candidate. • If the report from all the external examiners is not received within three months, a copy of thesis will be sent to another examiner from amongst the approved panel. • The thesis • defense will be conducted in the presence of Doctoral committee and one of the external examiners who has examined the thesis. Credit Requirements for the Ph.D. degree • Candidates enrolled in PhD, other than through Master’s programme : Compulsory courses of Master’s Programme + 6 Elective Credits (Thesis 48) • Candidates through Master’s programme —6 Elective Credits (Thesis 48) Result (a) If the Examiners are not satisfied with the performance of the candidate in the above examination, the candidate will have to reap pear for another viva vice examination after a period of two months provided such specific recommendation is made by the board of Examiners. (b) The candidate shall be declared eligible for the award of the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy only on the unanimous recommendations of the members of the Board of Examiners at the viva voce examination. Award of Degree: The transcript will be issued by the institute in which the candidate will be registered. The degree will be awarded jointly by AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur in alternate Convocations. The degree certificate will be issued and signed by competent authorities from both the Institutes.

1 Rules & Regulations For M.S. by Research Programs Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 2 There has been an increasing need to embed innovation components in various academic programs. Traditionally, research-based academic programs emphasize on scholarly publications. However, it is also important to recognize other forms of contributions, i.e. patents, technology development, entrepreneurship, etc., as outcomes of research initiatives. In view of this, the Institute has started MS by Research programs in cross-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary as well as application-directed areas. The research problems increasingly require a multidisciplinary approach to solve complex problems of interest or propose solutions leading to new innovations and entrepreneurship ventures. Today, we need in many cases diverse disciplines to engage in a spectrum of research-based activities ranging from scientific to social issues that challenge contemporary society - establishing a consistency betwee n diverse academic spaces. A considerable demand exists for such professionals who can synthesize more than one discipline and create teams of academicians and scholars that enrich the overall educational and research experience. M.S. by Research Programs are expected to be designed for: i) Innovative Research Outcomes in cross -disciplinary / multi -disciplinary areas. Such Programs are expected to be offered by schools or centres synergising diverse academic disciplines; admission will be through the academic unit specified admission process. ii) Innovation Driven Outcomes leading to EIR’s and / or Start -Up’s; admission will be through the academic unit specified admission process. iii) Targeted Deliveries linked to projects sponsored by external agencie s. Only project fellows appointed in a delivery-oriented project can register in part -time mode through a DRC/SRC/CRC monitored selection process. iv) The regular M.S. by Research students can be in the Centres and CoE only. The Department can admit M.S. by Research students supported by the R&D project. Only one (01) M .S. by Research student can be allocated to a faculty. 3 1. Limits on Registration A M.S. by Research student can register for maximum and minimum number of credits in a semester as indicated in Table 1.1. Table 1.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits a M.S. by Research student can register for during the Regular semester M.S. by Research student registered und er different categories Indicative Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 16 6 Part-Time 12 3 1.1. Registration Kept Alive (RKA) A student admitted to an M.S. by Research program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The can didate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean(academic). The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status (similar to M.Tech. students). A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 1.2 Change of Registration from M.S. by Research Programme to Ph.D. Programme The M.S. by Research Degree can be upgraded to Ph.D. based on the CGPA (>7.5) and progress of the student after 3 Semesters for regular students; however, transition will require continuation of the same work and the student has to satisfy regular PhD requirements. All conditions of Ph.D. degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate . 1.3 Maximum Duration of a Program A full -time M.S. by Research student can complete the program between 2 years ( minimum) to 4 years (maximum). A part -time student can complete the program between 3 years (minimum) to 5 years (maximum) 2 ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS 2.1 Academic Load & Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programs The total credits for a course is calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours (L -T-P) assigned as given in Table 2.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self -learning hours (on an average) to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 2.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.S. by research Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours # Total Credits (TC=TH/4) Contact Hours (CH) Beyond Contact Hours (BCH) Total Hours (TH) 1 hour of Lecture 1-0-0 1 3 4 1 1 hour of Tutorial 0-1-0 1 3 4 1 1 hour of Lab 0-0-1 1 1 2 0.5 1 hour of Thesis/Project 0-0-1 1 3 4 1 #Contact hour for a project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. 2.2. Academic Credit Requirements for M.S. by Research Students A student enrolled in the M.S. Program will require to complete 24 credits through course work, including the 4 NG credits, and 36 credits through research; The coursework credits may include elective courses - suggested by the School/Centers/SRC- and a presentation towards the assigned/defined research problem; 4 2.3 Academic Performance Requirements 2.3.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given below in Table 2.2. Table 2.2 Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme (SGPA) For graduation 1 M.S. by Research 6.5 (For first semester >=6) 7.5 at completion of course work 2.4 Degree Grade Point Average (DGPA) for M.S. by Research students A M.S. by Research student who has completed the credit requirements for the course work but has a CGPA less than 7.5 (required for graduation) will be evaluated using Degree Grade Point Average (DGPA) where DGPA is defined with respect to the best performance of the student in minimum number of credits. 2.5 Minimum performance for continuation of Assistantship/Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship/Fellowsh ip is given in Table 2.3 Table 2.3 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship/ Fellowship 1 M.S. by Research 6.5 3. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The regular M .S. by Research students would get fellowship/assistantship up to a maximum of 2 years as JRF starting from the date of registration. In exceptional cases, the fellowship can be extended to a maximum of one more year depending on the work done and the recommendations of the supervisor and SRC. 4. LEAVE RULES Leave rules for M.S. by Research will be followed as per the approved Rules and regulation for Ph.D. students enrolled from July 2022 onwards. 5. RULES AND REGULATION FOR CONDUCT AND EVALUATION OF M.S. project/thesis a) Allotment of students to supervisors will be made on the preferences of the students and supervisor(s). b) The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. c) Head or CRC would advise the student until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s) d) The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one-member external to the center (may be outside the Institute also). e) A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate sh all be proposed by the supervisor(s), recommended by the CRC and approved by Dean (Academics). f) The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean (Academics). g) The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. h) Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the CRC to Dean (Academics) for record. i) The SRC and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. j) The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. k) More than one student may be allowed to work on a problem of multi-disciplinary nature with a clear justification and problem statement describing the roles and responsibilities of the students l) The quality of the work can be assessed in terms of publications / patents / innovations / technology transfers / start-ups at the end of the project; 5 m) The Project / Thesis will be required to be evaluated by one examiner outside the Institute from the list of examiners proposed by the SRC and the SRC. 6. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation, if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 6.1 to 6.4 below. 6.1 Minimum Residential Requirement Table 6.1 Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration (in semesters) of Residence 1. M.S. by Research Full-time Regular /Sponsored All qualifying degrees 4 Part-time/ Part -time Executive All qualifying degrees 0 6.2 Academic The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 2.2, while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 2.3. 6.3 No Dues Clearance Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics). 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him. 6.5 Award of Degrees 6.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 6.1 to 6.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 6.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 6.1 to 6.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 6.6 Withdrawal of Degree 6 Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors for withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 7. AMENDMENTS Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT -Jodhpur.

Important Links S. R. Ranganathan Learning Hub ERP Portal External Applications (XApp) Inclusivity Cell International Relations Companies Oversight Corporate Relation Transport: Bus Schedule Techscape Publications @ IITJ House Allotment Rules For Employees Correspondence Grievance Redressal Committee How To Reach IIT Jodhpur Recruitment RTI Joint Consultative Committee Post Doctoral Fellows Commemorative Days @ IIT Jodhpur Vigilance Policy ScholarSphere SC and ST Helpdesk Tenders Chronological Development Friends of IIT Jodhpur Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Contact Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Recruitments Faculty Members Post Doctoral Fellows Non-Teaching Staff Members Project Staff Member Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Correspondence S.No. Correspondence No. Date Subject Department PDF 1 IITJ/DIR/2024-25/116 26-Feb-2025 Appointment of Student Ombudsperson at IIT Jodhpur Office of Director • File (English) (77 KB) 2 IITJ/REG/2024-25/112 14-Aug-2024 Action Committee on Viksit Bharat@2047 Office of Registrar • File (English) (85 KB) 3 IITJ/REG/2024-25/79 29-Jul-2024 Adoption of the rules pertaining to Scheme for Compassionate Appointment under Central Government at IIT Jodhpur - reg. Office of Registrar • File (English) (60 KB) 4 IITJ/DIR/2024-25/09 16-Jul-2024 Appointment of Student Ombudsperson(s) at IIT jodhpur Office of Director • File (English) (1 MB) Archive Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 25 Mar 2026 - 12:15 PM

RTI RTI Welcome RTI Cell Procedure For RTI Disclosure Under Section 4 of the RTI Act 2005 Last updated on : 12 Mar 2025 About Right to Information Act Name & Title Of The Act Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act) (PDF) Guidelines RTI Guidelines Definition Right to Information means the right to : Inspection of work, documents, records; Taking notes, extracts or certified copies of documents or records; Taking certified samples of material; Obtaining information in the form of diskettes, floppies, tapes, video cassettes, or in any other electronic mode or through printouts where such information is stored in a computer or other device, subject to relevant provisions. Objective/Purpose of the Act To provide available information of the Institute as enshrined in the RTI Act to Indian citizens on payment of prescribed fees. Users Citizens of India Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

Tenders Details News / Announcement Tender Details Tender Data on old website Tender Draft (English , Hindi ) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:39 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Editorial Policy Submit your Article

Contact Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District Rajasthan India eMail: pro@iitj.ac.in Phone: 0291 280 1195 Queries related to Administrative Contact Institute Working Days: Five days a week (Monday to Friday) Working Hours - 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM. Institute is closed on Saturdays & Sundays and Notified Holidays of the Institute. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

How To Reach IIT Jodhpur 1. Where is IIT Jodhpur? IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of the city of Jodhpur and is well connected to other parts of country by road, rail and air. The Institute is located on National Highway 65 at Karwad Village, about 24 km from the railway station and 25 km from the airport; it takes approximately 45 mins and 40 mins to drive from airport and railway station to the Institute, respectively. 2. How to reach the campus? Jodhpur is connected well by road, rail and air to all major cities in the country, and by mega highways to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. It is connected by rail to major cities in the country, like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kota, Kanpur, Ahmedabad, Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Guwahati, Nagpur, Lucknow and Jaipur There are daily flights from Delhi and Mumbai to Jodhpur. Air India and Jet Airways operate the daily flight to each of these cities Jodhpur is connected by mega-highway to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. Deluxe and express buses ply to Jodhpur from Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Baroda. (a) From Airport to Campus You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Institute, which is situated on National Highway 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus is about 25 km from the airport. (b) From Railway Station to Campus At Jodhpur Junction Railway Station, exit from Platform No.1 side. You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur, which is situated on National Highway 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus is 24 km from the Station. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Welcome To The Institute Repository Minutes of Senate Meeting Minutes of BOG Meeting Annual Report Newsletter Brochure Accessibility ARIIA 2019-20 NIRF Vanguard Lectures Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 07 Jan 2026 - 12:53 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Donate 📝 Donation Form Submit Your Details in the Donation Form. Please scroll down for Payment Methods Complete your donation by clicking the button below. All fields marked with * are mandatory. 🚀 Open Donation Form 📋 Required Information Please have the following information ready: Personal Details (Name, Email, Phone) Donation Amount & Purpose PAN Number for Tax Receipt Address for Communication Online Donation Via QR Thank you for considering to contribute to IIT Jodhpur. You can contribute to the institute by various modes described below. All contributions to IIT Jodhpur are 100% exempt under section 80G of Income Tax Act. Formal tax exemption receipt for all donations will be issued. 🏦 Payment through Net Banking We accept contributions through Wire Transfers/NEFT/RTGS Bank Account Details ACCOUNT NAME DIRECTOR IIT JODHPUR ACCOUNT NUMBER 50100074398977 BANK NAME HDFC IFSC CODE HDFC0000142 BRANCH ADDRESS 57 B, 9th Chopasani Road, Jodhpur Email Transaction Receipt After completing your transfer, email your receipt to: office_prg@iitj.ac.in office_cr@iitj.ac.in Include in Email Transaction receipt Project/purpose details Contact information PAN number 💻 Online Donation via QR Make your contributions using Net Banking or scan the QR Code below. Director IIT Jodhpur TID: 62883632 Scan & Pay 📝 Payment through Cheques / DD We welcome contributions through Cheque/DD. Please send Cheque/DD along with a cover letter specifying the project/purpose, contact details and PAN No. to the following addresses: Cheque/DD Instructions Write your cheques to: "Director IIT Jodhpur" 📍 Send to this address: The Dean of Resources & Alumni, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan, India 📞 Phone: 0291 280 1117 / 1116 💡 Important Reminder Don't forget to include your cover letter with details, contact information, and PAN number 🏛️ Tax Exemption Benefits 100% Tax Exemption under Section 80G All contributions are eligible for a complete tax exemption. Official tax exemption receipts will be issued for all donations. 📋 Formal receipts provided for all donations Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 12:29 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Web Policy Quality: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. Association to government is demonstrated by the use of emblem/logo in proper ratio and colour, prominently displayed on the homepage of the website or homescreen of the app. Ownership information is displayed on the homepage/homescreen and on all important entry pages/screens of the website/app and each subsequent page/screen is a standalone entity in terms of ownership, navigation and context of content. Source of all documents, not owned by the dept. that have been reproduced in part or full, is mentioned. Due permissions have been obtained for publishing any content protected by copyright. Homepage/homescreen of the website/app displays the last updated/ reviewed date. Complete information including title, size, format and usage instructions is provided for all downloadable material. In respect of each circular, notification, document, form, scheme, service and recruitment notice, the following should be clearly listed on the website/app: a. Complete title b. Language (if other than English) c. Purpose/procedure to apply (as applicable) d. Validity (if applicable) All outdated Announcements, Tenders, Recruitment notices, News and Press Releases are removed from the website/app and/or placed into the archives as per the archival policy. All information about the government organisation which is useful to users is present in the ‘About us’ section and a mechanism is in place to keep the information up to date. Website/app has a ‘Contact us’ page providing complete contact details of important functionaries in the government organisation and this is linked from the homepage/homescreen and all relevant places on the website/app. Feedback is collected through online forms and a mechanism is in place to ensure timely response to feedback/queries received through the website. Website/app provides a prominent link to the ‘National Portal’ from the homepage and webpages belonging to the ‘National Portal’ load in the new browser window. The website has been tested on multiple browsers. Hindi/Regional language fonts have been tested on popular browsers for any inconsistency (loss of layout). The website/app has a readily available Help section linked from all pages of the website. Website uses Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to control layouts/styles and incorporates responsive design features to ensure that the interface displays well on different screen sizes. Website is readable even when style sheets are switched off or not loaded. Proper page title and language attribute along with metadata for page like keywords and description are appropriately included. Minimum content as prescribed in the guidelines is present on the homepage/homescreen and all subsequent pages/screens. Data tables have been provided with necessary tags/markup. Content of the web page prints correctly on an A4 size paper Website is in the nic.in or gov.in domain. Educational Institutions and Research and Academic Institutions, which are eligible for registration under ‘gov.in’ may use ‘edu.in’, ‘res.in’ or ‘ac.in’ domains. The government organisation must ensure a consistent user experience and visual identities across all its websites/apps. Websites/apps must provide integration with popular social media. The language is free from spelling and grammatical errors. Accessibility: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. All non-text content that is presented to the user has a text alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed below: Controls, Input: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it has a name that describes its purpose (Refer to Success Criterion 4.1.2 for additional requirements for controls and content that accepts user input); Time-Based Media: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content (Refer to Guideline 1.2 for additional requirements for media); Test: If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content; Sensory: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content; CAPTCHA: If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided and alternative forms of CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to accommodate different disabilities; and Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by assistive technology. Information, structure and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text. When the sequence in which content is presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence can be programmatically determined. Instructions provided for understanding and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics of components such as shape, color, size, visual location, orientation, or sound. Content does not restrict its view and operation to a single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a specific display orientation is essential. Colour is not used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio volume independently from the overall system volume level. The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following: … Except for captions and images of text, text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent without loss of content or functionality. If the technologies being used can achieve the visual presentation, text is used to convey information rather than images of text except for the following: … Customizable: The image of text can be visually customised to the user’s requirements; Essential: A particular presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed; and Use of images for representing text should be limited. Content can be presented without loss of information or functionality and without requiring scrolling in two dimensions for: Vertical scrolling content at a width equivalent to 320 CSS pixels; Horizontal scrolling content at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels; and Except for parts of the content which require a two-dimensional layout for usage or meaning. The visual presentation of the following has a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent colour(s): User Interface Components: Visual information required to identify user interface components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author; Graphical Objects: Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a particular presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed. In content implemented using markup languages that support the following text style properties, no loss of content or functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by changing no other style property: … Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size; Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size; Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12 times the font size; Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size; and Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that combination of language and script. Where receiving and then removing pointer hover or keyboard focus triggers additional content to become visible and then hidden, the following are true: … Dismissible: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus unless the additional content communicates an input error or does not obscure or replace other content; Hover-able: If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing; and Persistent: The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid. All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the user’s movement and not just the endpoints. If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard interface and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab keys or other standard exit methods, the user is advised of the method for moving focus away. If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in content using only letter (including upper- and lower-case letters), punctuation, number, or symbol characters, then at least one of the following is true: … Turn off: A mechanism is available to turn the shortcut off; Remap: A mechanism is available to remap the shortcut to include one or more non-printable keyboard keys (e.g., Ctrl, Alt); and Active only on focus: The keyboard shortcut for a user interface component is only active when that component has focus. For each time limit that is set by the content, at least one of the following is true: … Turn off: The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or Adjust: The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a wide range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or Extend: The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, “press the spacebar”) and the user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or Real-time Exception: The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for example, an auction) and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or Essential Exception: The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate the activity; or 20 Hour Exception: The time limit is longer than 20 hours. For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto‑updating information, all of the following are true: … Moving, blinking, scrolling: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five seconds and (3) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it is essential; and Auto-updating: For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and (2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential. Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period, or the flash is below the general flash and red flash thresholds. A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple Web pages. Web pages/app screens have titles that describe topic or purpose. If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and operability. General Guidelines: Copyright Policy "No copyright protected third party content has been used in the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur website” Material featured on this portal may be reproduced free of charge in any format or media without requiring specific permission. This is subject to the material being reproduced accurately and not being used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Where the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material does not extend to any material on this site which is identified as being the copyright of the third party. Authorization to reproduce such material is obtained from the copyright holders concerned. Clearer distinction between IIT Jodhpur-owned and third-party content. Emphasis on accurate representation and avoiding misuse of content. Specific guidance on proper attribution, including URL references. Information on commercial use restrictions. Contact information for inquiries. Content Contribution, Moderation, and Approval (CMAP) Policy Objective: The CMAP policy at IIT Jodhpur aims to maintain a high standard of academic integrity and quality across all user-contributed content, ensuring it aligns with the educational mission of the institution while fostering respectful and inclusive academic discourse. Submission Guidelines: Contributors are encouraged to submit original images, videos, artwork, or other creative content. All submissions must follow the web portal’s creative themes, which include art, design and multimedia. Content formats allowed: JPEG/PNG for images, and PDF/HTML for written submissions. Following this policy, we provide a role-based Content Management system. This CMS helps the website team by giving role-specific access to the administrator panel to different Users. Admin can create the users by assigning him a particular role and Module to which functions of a particular user are limited. These users are known as web coordinators. These users would be appointed by the Web Information manager in consultation with concern department/Office/section and they would be responsible for the overall quality and quantity of information on the Website. Policy ensures below mentioned points on website. Website is free from offensive/discriminatory language. Clear and simple language has been used throughout the website. The language is free from spelling and grammatical errors. There is adequate contrast between the text and background color. Alternate text is provided for non-text elements (e.g. images). Web pages do not contain any content that flashes more than three times in a second. Web coordinators from various department/Office/section will provide/update the information in bilingual (Hindi and English) which will be verified by Hindi office as per requested. For various requirements, the portals developed by ERP section of the institute will be linked with website. The contact information of the relevant office/technical team will be given on portal regarding any queries regarding portal. Content Archival Policy (CAP) Content Archival Mechanism is in place to ensure that all outdated announcements are removed from the website or moved to archive. This will help the website team in ensuring that the expired contents are removed from the main website. The Archival System is available on the Website will transfer the expired content in the archives section as soon as it reaches the expiry date. Content Review Policy (CRP) The web information manager and the assigned Personnel (web coordinators) will have the responsibility for periodically reviewing the content of the website in respect of their respective domains/department/offices/centers etc. and keeping the information Up to Date. Hyperlinking Policy Links to external websites/portals : At many places on IIT Jodhpur, you shall find links to other websites/portals. These links have been placed for your convenience. IIT Jodhpur is not responsible for the contents of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over the availability of linked destinations. Links to IIT Jodhpur by other websites/portals: We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this web site and no prior permission is required for the same. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to IIT Jodhpur must load into a newly opened browser window of the User. Links of IIT Jodhpur portals: as per requirement there are various links will be present on website which is developed by ERP division of institute. The contact information of relevant office/technical team will be given on portal regarding any queries regarding portal. Privacy Policy This website does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, (like name, phone number or e-mail address), that allows us to identify you individually. We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on the website site to any third party (public/private). Any information provided to this website will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol (IP) addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. Terms & Conditions This website is intended to provide information about our academic programs, research activities, campus life, and other initiatives. While we make every effort to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of the information contained here, it's important to understand the limitations outlined below. Disclaimer Information Sources: The content on this website, including news, announcements, and regulations, is derived from various sources within IIT Jodhpur. However, this website is not an official legal document and should not be relied upon. Accuracy and Currency We diligently strive to keep the information accurate and up to date. However, errors or outdated information may inadvertently occur. We encourage you to verify any critical information by checking with the relevant department or authority at IIT Jodhpur or consulting other reliable sources. Professional Advice The information on this website is for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be a substitute for professional advice. For matters related to academics, admissions, legal issues, or any other specific concerns, please seek guidance from qualified professionals. Liability IIT Jodhpur assumes no responsibility for any expenses, losses, or damages arising from the use of this website, including indirect or consequential damages, data loss, or service interruptions. This applies even if we are notified of the possibility of these damages. Acceptance By accessing and using this website, you acknowledge and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions. If you do not agree to these terms, please do not use this website. Governing Law These terms and conditions are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of India. Jurisdiction Any dispute arising out of or relating to these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of India. Changes IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice. Your continued use of this website following any such modification constitutes your agreement to the revised terms and conditions. Intellectual Property All content on this website, including text, images, videos, and logos, is the property of IIT Jodhpur or its licensors and is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. Unauthorized use of this content is strictly prohibited. Links to External Websites This website may contain links to external websites that are not operated by IIT Jodhpur. We have no control over the content of these websites and are not responsible for their content or practices. Your use of these external websites is at your own risk. Privacy Policy Please refer to our Privacy Policy for information on how we collect, use, and protect your personal information. By using this website, you agree to these disclaimers and Terms of Use. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us. Website Monitoring Plan Under this, the website is monitored periodically to address and fix the quality and compatibility issues around the following parameters: Functionality: All modules of the website are tested for their Functionality for their smooth working. Performance: All important pages of the website are tested for the download time. Broken Links: The website is thoroughly reviewed to rule out the presence of any broken links or errors. Contingency Management Plan The Hosting Service Provider (IIT Jodhpur) possesses state-of-the-art multi-tier security infrastructure which includes devices such as web application firewall (WAF), intrusion prevention systems and Endpoint Protection that has been implemented in the hosting system. Security Policy Increasing complexity of data access due to multiplicity of platforms leads to multiple leakage scenarios while data is being created, accessed and utilized. Network server system , endpoints, application physical environments, and communication are involved in the execution of a data transaction .These elements contribute to the security posture of data. Value associated with data collected by an organization is increasing phenomenally, attracting the attention of adversaries and attackers. Security threats are becoming more organized and targeted , reaping immense benefits out of data compromises .This has led to the increasing concentration of these threats at the data layer. We maintain appropriate security measures to protect your personal information from unauthorized access, alteration, or disclosure. We utilize secure servers and encryption protocols to safeguard your data. We regularly review and update our security practices to adapt to evolving threats. We maintain proper data classification so no sharing of secret & top secret document is permitted We are also maintaining network segmentation to reduce the attack surface. Download section : Please follow the GIGW guidelines for common structure of download section and archival page. Accessibility: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Web Information Manager (WIM) Contact Information Name: Ram Singh Ratnu Designation: Junior Technical Superintendent Department: Digital Infrastructure and Automation Address: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 Rajasthan (India) Phone: 0291 280 1172 Email: webmaster[at]iitj[dot]ac[dot]in Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Feedback Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

NIRF # Year Title 2025 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2025 Engineering ( 108 KB ) Management ( 23 KB ) Overall ( 114 KB ) Innovation ( 114 KB ) Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) ( 110 KB ) 2024 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2024 Overall ( 95 KB ) IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2024 Engineering ( 89 KB ) 2023 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2023 Engineering ( 82.8 KB ) Overall ( 89 KB ) 18 February, 2022 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2022 ( 77 KB ) 19 February, 2021 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2021 ( 69 KB ) 31 December, 2019 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2020 ( 85 KB ) 7 January, 2019 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2019 ( 59 KB ) 7 December, 2017 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2018 ( 89 KB ) 28 November, 2016 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2017 ( 315 KB ) # File (2017) Consultancy Project Detail ( 125 KB ) Entrepreneurship ( 242 KB ) Executive Development Program ( 220 KB ) Higher Studies NIRF Final ( 293 KB ) National Ranking (Important) ( 327 KB ) Sponsored Research Detail ( 287 KB ) Top University Details_3D ( 242 KB ) Top University Details_5D ( 196 KB ) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 07 Jan 2026 - 12:53 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Anti Sexual Harassment Policy IIT Jodhpur constituted Internal Complaints Committee vide Notification No.IITJ/Admin/2019-20/153 dated 23 November 2019 in accordance with the provisions contained in Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The Terms of Reference of the Committee shall be as follows: To organise regular awareness programs in the Institute, regarding sexual harassment, for various stakeholders of the Institute, particularly, women; To recommend to the Institute, from time to time, measures that should be taken to deter sexual harassment and acts that affect dignity of all persons in the campus; To deal with such other matters and issues as may be considered connected with sexual harassment to anyone affecting their dignity; and To advice the Institute from time to time in matters of sexual harassment, and also for upholding the dignity of everyone attached with the Institute. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Aug 2025 - 04:03 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Intranet Page Phone Book Correspondences Office Application Office Communication FTP e-Office ERP Portal Messaging Platform Moodle Old ERP Lab Booking System Bus Schedule Website Change Request form Photo Gallery Web Policy Guidelines Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Welcome To The Digital Infrastructure & Automation/Computer Center The Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) commonly known as Computer Center of the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur stands as a testament to the institution’s commitment to cutting-edge research, innovation, and technological development. As a pivotal hub for computing and information technology, the Computer Center has played a crucial role in shaping the academic landscape and the advancement of the institute. Since its inception, the Computer Center has undergone remarkable development and growth, aligning itself with advancements in the field of computing. Equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructure and a team of highly skilled professionals, the center has fostered an environment conducive to research and learning. Read More Quick Access ERP Portal Private Cloud Moodle Lab Booking System DIA Verticals Computer Center Network & Cybersecurity ERP & Automation Objective The center’s primary objective is to provide computational resources, technical support, and expertise to students, faculty members, and researchers across various disciplines. Its advanced computing facilities include high-performance computing clusters, AI supercomputers and specialized software. These resources empower the IIT Jodhpur community to undertake complex computational tasks, simulate intricate models, and conduct data-intensive research. Learn More Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 03:16 PM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Bioscience & Bioengineering Chemistry Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

School Of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science School of Design School of Liberal Arts School of Management & Entrepreneurship Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

IDRPs / IDRCs Centre For AIoT and Application Space Technology Digital Humanities Robotics and Mobility Systems Quantum Information & Computation Centre for Digital Health Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

Center for Education Technology (CET) Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD) Central Research Facility (CRF) Center for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP) Manekshaw Centre Medical Technology Centre Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .

Transcripts The transcript is a verified copy of the grade card of the student packed and sealed in an envelope and will be issued only at the end of the program. This service is available on payment of fee as mentioned below: SN Documents Applied For Fees (Including Postal Charges) 1 Transcript (for Passed Out Students) Within India (By Post): Rs. 1500/- Abroad (By Post) US $50 2 For Third Party Requests Sent via email to an Institute/Organization/University etc. directly through the IITJ) India (By Mail) Rs. 500/- Abroad (By Mail) US $15 Note: "The GST (18%) is applicable for all the graduates". Any graduate student can request a set of the transcript by providing the following mandatory details: Name Roll Number Email address Mobile Number Name of Program Full Postal Address with Pin code Transcript link at https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/exapp/auth/signup.htm?module_id=5 In case of any query related to the transcript, please send an email to transcript@iitj.ac.in For Current Students: Students will get a Grade Card at the end of each semester on ERP. Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Convocation The Institute has hosted four convocations so far, namely: S. No. Convocation Date Chief Guest 1 First Convocation 10 July 2013 Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Hon’ble President of India 2 Second Convocation 16 July 2014 Dr. V. K. Saraswat, Former Director General, DRDO 3 Third Convocation 8 December 2016 Dr. Arvind Panagariya, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Government of India 4 Fourth Convocation 25 August 2018 Dr. Srikumar Banerjee, Chancellor, Homi Bhabha National Institute, Mumbai 5 Fifth Convocation 17 December 2019 Prof. S. C. Dutta Roy, INSA Honorary Scientist, Formerly Professor and Head, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi 6 Sixth Convocation 06 December 2020 Prof. Geoffrey E. Hinton, Turing Award Winner, Emeritus Distinguished Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Canada 7 Seventh Convocation 19 December 2021 Dr. Rajesh Gokhale, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India 8 Eighth Convocation 12 November 2022 Dr. Kris Gopalakrishnan, Chairman, Axilor Ventures 9 Ninth Convocation 21 November 2023 Dr. K. Radhakrishnan, Space Commission and ISRO Former Secretary, Department of Space, Government of India 10 Tenth Convocation 26 October 2024 Shri Jagdeep Dhankar, Hon'ble, Vice-President of India Video recording of the Fourth Convocation of IIT Jodhpur, 25 August 2018 Video recording of the Third Convocation of IIT Jodhpur, 08 December 2016 Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Scholarships The Office of Students serves as a communication channel for various scholarship schemes launched by state and central government bodies. The Office administration intimates, motivates, guides and assists students in applying for any applicable scholarships/financial aid. The Office also performs correspondence between the Institute and Government agencies. A few of the scholarships under the umbrella of the Institute are as follows: SC scholarship for Top Class students ST scholarship for Top Class students Fee remission to EWS B.Tech. students UGC-CSIR JRF/SRF funding General Guidelines for utilization of PMRF Research Grant (Download file: 88 KB) The details of the Scholarship are available to the students in the National Scholarship Portal (NSP): Visit National Scholarship Portal Promotion of Science Education (POSE) scholarship scheme for the year 2022-23: Advertisement (Download file: 88 KB) Visit http://dstharyana.gov.in/html/whatsnew.htm Details of Scholarship/Fellowship/Interest subsidy/Fee Remibursement etc, provided to students by Ministries/Departments/Autonomous/Bodies/Finanical (Download file: 79 KB ) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!

Fee Structure Fee structure for AY 2025-26 : ( Download file) Fee structure for Academic Year 2024-25 : ( Download file) Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM ###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!
